00:00:11.720 - 00:00:46.900, Speaker A: You can start, Josh. Thank you everyone for joining and welcome to Celestia core devs call 15. Today. We'll be going over a few things for cips, but we'll start with the roll call, I guess, to note I'm not going to be taking notes live today, so we'll be sharing notes after the call. So for the consensus team, the core and app team, do we have people from the core and app team here?
00:00:47.480 - 00:00:52.380, Speaker B: I'm here at least Evan and I think ratul and Colm are probably here as well.
00:00:52.710 - 00:00:53.530, Speaker C: Awesome.
00:00:55.350 - 00:01:29.540, Speaker A: Sweet. Thank you. Is anyone from the strange love team here? I don't think so. Nope. And the IBC team, I think that's a no as well. Binary builders, I don't see binary builders here. And informal, I also do not see in the chat.
00:01:29.540 - 00:01:50.040, Speaker A: So that concludes it for consensus for Da. Yeah, it is definitely summer and definitely the biggest part of vacation season. So for da teamode, I see Renee. Renee, nice. Thank you for iger.
00:01:50.700 - 00:01:52.108, Speaker C: Mikoy here from iger.
00:01:52.204 - 00:02:09.520, Speaker A: Hey, awesome. Thank you. Cool. So that's it for roll call. Thank you everyone again for coming today. And we're going to get into the working groups updates. If anyone from the DA working group is here and would like to chime in with any updates, now is the time.
00:02:09.520 - 00:02:29.569, Speaker A: And if there are no updates, that's also okay. On that note, I'll go ahead and skip to the interface working group. Anyone from the interface working group here? And if you are, would you like to share anything?
00:02:31.149 - 00:02:54.910, Speaker B: No. Since the last I think code I've called, there was no upgrade, no progress besides the draft CIP that has not received any comments yet. But like, I'll finish the draft hopefully before end of August together with the team and then we'll look for more and more feedback on it as well.
00:02:55.210 - 00:03:04.230, Speaker A: Cool. And on that note, I will work with you to make it fit into the site because I know you made that printhead before I added the site.
00:03:04.890 - 00:03:06.018, Speaker B: Awesome. Thank you.
00:03:06.074 - 00:03:15.650, Speaker A: Yeah. Welcome. So that's it from the interface working group. Are there any updates from the ZK working group? Maybe.
00:03:15.690 - 00:03:38.950, Speaker D: Nash, one update that I can give is that there is work now starting to be that's laying out all possible paths that lead to the same affects CK accounts to be able to decide which direction things should go. And that will be also discussed next week.
00:03:39.490 - 00:03:43.470, Speaker A: Okay. And you're still having the. I think it's a weekly sync, right?
00:03:44.210 - 00:03:45.602, Speaker D: It is bi weekly.
00:03:45.666 - 00:03:46.194, Speaker A: Bi weekly.
00:03:46.242 - 00:03:50.630, Speaker D: But now basically every other week than the core dev call.
00:03:53.570 - 00:04:26.520, Speaker A: Okay. And I think that's it for working group updates. We have some. We have lemongrass hard fork coming up, and Rutul has some updates around Celestia app V two upgrades. And if you want to see more, I'll just open this on the side. This CIP 17 is the Lemongrass hard fork cip that we're referring to. Take the floor.
00:04:27.780 - 00:05:19.306, Speaker E: So I really just wanted to call out that Celestia node is going to cut a release pretty shortly that supports Celestia V two. And once we have both of those releases, we're going to start deploying to the test nets. So if you're a node operator on Arabica, please, please, please follow the discord and the Telegram channels, because, like, the network will upgrade in a week, and that means you're going to have to upgrade your software in this timeframe. In this one week timeframe. Also, if you're a consensus node or validator, I mean, eravica, there are no like public validators, but if you're a consensus node operator, you're also going to need to pass a like Cli flag that's documented in the docs. So just pay attention to that. And if you have an application on Arabica, definitely monitor it.
00:05:19.306 - 00:05:32.630, Speaker E: Um, like before and after August 14. And then we're going to, you know, repeat this exercise on mocha after Eravica and then eventually on main net. But that's like the V two kind of stuff that's going on.
00:05:34.290 - 00:05:50.004, Speaker A: And are the timelines 1 second here? Are the timelines relatively the same as the last call? I forget exactly what. Yeah, here we are. Are we still looking at these?
00:05:50.052 - 00:06:04.684, Speaker E: They're kind of a little bit pushed back, actually. So like, Arabica is, I guess, mid August mocha is like end of August maintenance a little bit early September, but yeah. Wow. Thank you for this notes.
00:06:04.732 - 00:06:11.448, Speaker A: You're welcome. We'll add that in the notes from today's call, just noting that it's changed a little bit.
00:06:11.644 - 00:06:14.064, Speaker E: Yeah, it's just been pushed back a little bit. Yeah.
00:06:14.192 - 00:06:46.618, Speaker A: Cool. I guess while we're talking about that, I want to open the floor. If anyone else has questions to talk about those V two upgrades, if there's any questions or comments or concerns, I will take the silence as a no. And we can go to CIP 24. I actually only want to cover this if Nina's around. I don't think Nina's here, but I guess if anyone else from the core.
00:06:46.634 - 00:06:49.390, Speaker C: And app team, I can also.
00:06:52.050 - 00:06:53.130, Speaker A: Thank you, Colin.
00:06:53.290 - 00:07:42.056, Speaker C: Yeah, so this is a very small CIP. It basically serves to help clients estimate the amount of gas it requires to submit a transaction. At the moment, we have two variables which are governance changeable and they affect the gas scheduler. So this is the cost per byte of a paper blob and then the general cost for the transaction. And so since they can be changed in governance, it means they can be changed at any height. And so if you're a client and you want to work out how much gas is required for your transaction, you'd have to query the chain, every height to see if it has changed. Since these variables have never changed, and we don't really plan on having them change at such a frequent basis, it doesn't make sense for them to be governance modifiable, but instead to just modify them on a version to version basis.
00:07:42.056 - 00:07:58.980, Speaker C: So for the version of V three, these will be the same, and so you can rely on them being the same for when you're doing your calculations. And they will only change in a major fork upgrade if they were to change. So this just makes it easier for clients that are submitting transactions and blobs, uh, to estimate guess.
00:08:02.320 - 00:08:21.496, Speaker A: Awesome. Thank you, Colin. And I think we can leave that in draft for now and as it comes to life with some implementation, reference implementation and stuff, we can move it forward. That was all we have on the agenda. Oh, what's up?
00:08:21.528 - 00:08:35.420, Speaker E: Maybe, maybe just a quick note. Uh, Nina has like a draft pr, basically almost ready pr for that thing. So I think pretty shortly the reference implementation will be filled out and it'll like move statuses.
00:08:35.880 - 00:09:21.004, Speaker A: Okay. And then on that note, if you want to get involved in the discussion, I would recommend heading to the forum and beginning that discussion. I think that is all we have covered for or all we have on the agenda for today. So just last time, opening the floor for questions or any other topics that people would like to discuss. Cool. Yeah, I guess that's it. Thank you everyone for coming and we look forward to seeing you.
00:09:21.004 - 00:09:39.372, Speaker A: In two weeks, we'll send out an invitation to the working groups and to. Yeah, that was a quick one. Unless anyone else has anything else, I think that's it. But yeah. Thank you again for coming and that's all.
00:09:39.556 - 00:09:40.340, Speaker C: Thanks, Josh.
00:09:40.420 - 00:09:42.188, Speaker B: Thank you. Thanks a lot.
00:09:42.364 - 00:09:44.100, Speaker A: Thank you, bye.
