00:00:00.730 - 00:00:25.590, Speaker A: Before we kickstart the agenda, we'll do a quick roll call, and hopefully some of the representative from the working group are also here. But if not, we can skip over and try to get an update later, but we'll do a roll call. So, core app team, any representative, I'm assuming Evan is here. Evan.
00:00:27.010 - 00:00:32.666, Speaker B: We got Evan and Callum here on my. Evan.
00:00:32.858 - 00:00:44.146, Speaker A: Hello. Evan and Callum. That's fine. Yeah. Awesome. Strangelove. Do we have anyone from Strangelove here? Hey, we got Alex as well.
00:00:44.146 - 00:01:05.666, Speaker A: There's a few of us. Awesome. Anyone from the IBC team? I don't know if Susanna is here or somebody from her team. Okay. Maybe they'll be a little bit late. Anyone from binary builders here? Yeah. Hey, this is Bez.
00:01:05.666 - 00:01:16.300, Speaker A: How's it going? Oh, shout out. Anyone from informal, I think. Ethan, you're on the call.
00:01:17.810 - 00:01:19.120, Speaker C: Yeah, I'm here.
00:01:19.570 - 00:01:53.430, Speaker A: Awesome. Then we're going to do roll call for the DA layer. I believe Renee is on the call from Celestinode and Iger. Anyone from Iger here? I'm from Iger. Awesome. Okay, now let's move on to the other stuff on the call. So if anyone representative from the working group want to give an update, we'll start off with the DA working group and we'll take it from there.
00:01:53.430 - 00:02:19.650, Speaker A: So I don't know if Raman Ramin is on the call, but if somebody attended the DA working group, you want to do a quick update? If not, we can move on. That's fine. Raman, maybe Renee, you can fill us in. I believe you guys had a call recently. Yes.
00:02:23.700 - 00:02:25.090, Speaker B: Can you hear me fine.
00:02:25.480 - 00:02:27.844, Speaker A: Yeah. Can you guys hear me?
00:02:27.882 - 00:03:00.990, Speaker B: Okay, we had a call a few days ago to discuss CIP four, which is going to establish, like, a sampling window and a pruding window for the data availability network, which will be set to about 30 days. And there was, like, one new parameter introduced, which is that the pruning window has to be just a bit longer than the sampling window to account for clock drift. But that is.
00:03:07.170 - 00:03:12.430, Speaker A: I deliver.
00:03:14.530 - 00:03:20.820, Speaker B: And review. So we need to do one more call to finalize it and then we get it in.
00:03:23.030 - 00:03:45.178, Speaker A: Okay, that sounds good. So, CIP four. I think there's a pull request as well for updating CIP four. I caught most of it, Renee. I don't know about the rest, but I caught most of it. And basically you guys are scoping out CIP four now. And in the next few meetings you'll be able to finalize it and stuff.
00:03:45.178 - 00:03:46.300, Speaker A: If I'm not.
00:03:47.470 - 00:03:53.210, Speaker B: Yeah, yeah. I think we're all in agreement. I think it's just a formality.
00:03:54.290 - 00:04:10.910, Speaker A: Okay, that sounds good. Moving on to anyone from the interface working group, I don't know if Josh or Josh Bowen is here or glib.
00:04:11.510 - 00:04:49.360, Speaker D: Yeah, I'm here. Quick update, we had our last working group call last week at the same time. So on the 17th we have a notes doc, I can share that in the celestial improvement protocol telegram chat. No kind of major action items. We're planning to run at a monthly cadence so the next call would be in planned for three weeks from today. Kind of existing action items we're working on is Gabriel is going to put together a CIP draft for the DA interface. We're also going to be putting it at a GitHub organization and or a repo just to kind of track the specific interface working group going forward.
00:04:49.360 - 00:05:15.800, Speaker D: And I'm working on gathering information on kind of where blob retrieval and submission and whatnot is happening in different code bases. So this is people block explorers using it, various roll up frameworks, shared sequencers, relayers, et cetera, et cetera. Just so we have kind of an index of all of the people who are different kind of stakeholders interacting with various interfaces as they rate to the broader selection ecosystem, but nothing kind of major for this call.
00:05:17.290 - 00:05:39.280, Speaker A: Sounds good. And the next update from the CK working group. Saki, I believe you're on the call. I know you guys just had the call 1 hour ago and stuff, so if you maybe want to share with the rest of the group about any updates from the group so far. I know it's the first call, but I think it'll be helpful for people to understand what the working group is about.
00:05:39.810 - 00:07:14.382, Speaker E: Sure, absolutely. We just finished a 1 hour call, the first kickoff call with the ZK and associate base layer working group, I guess so immediate action or the sort of high level goal of the or like there are a number of goals for the working group to highlight and discuss potential applications of ZK that would be integrated into solicitor base layer. Things like ZK proving the erasure coding scheme, but also things like snark accounts that Mr. Proposed earlier. And there's been a bunch of research on that and succinct is doing some prototyping on and continue to discuss this. And then the other thing is probably it seems like the core mission or the immediate action items is to propose a state interface and a specific proving system. And the current sort of thing for the next meeting is to discuss the straw men of why would we not just incorporate Narc the consensus's go snark library into the base layer and make that like the 2024 target and everybody, and encourage teams that are building application layer things to try to build those things on top of those on that proving system, and then propose specific cips for that.
00:07:14.382 - 00:08:08.350, Speaker E: So we're going to discuss that, try and understand pros and cons, potentially propose a cadence of other proving systems. And there's interesting trade offs that exist in sort of zero expressivity land. There's preprocessing snarps, which all have a very simple state interface and a very simple verification interface where they just have a verification key. But then in other kinds of snarks that exist that give you big benefits, improving times. You could have systems where you need to be able to, like the verifier needs to be expressive enough to be able to say, like, okay, we're going to do a sequence of subsurcu and we're using these gadgets and stuff like that. And then that might require some sort of scripting language of some kind to be embedded. So these are the questions that are being discussed.
00:08:08.350 - 00:08:27.380, Speaker E: And it seems like we very quickly surfaced the sum of many years of informal conversations and random conversations that have been had into one place. And there will be a GitHub repo and notes, and there's a telegram group where all of these things will be sort of followed up on. We will have another meeting in two weeks.
00:08:50.660 - 00:09:38.230, Speaker A: I'm guessing that Yaz dropped out. Yeah, I think so. Let's give him a minute, guys. Yeah, I'm going to go to CIp six. Okay, so I think next up we have CIP six is going to last call. So if column is here or someone else from the corn app team, potentially, yes. Sorry.
00:09:38.230 - 00:09:52.204, Speaker A: Hello. So sorry I was gone last call. Do you mind refreshing my memory for CIp six? Oh, the price enforcement. So I think that's going to last call.
00:09:52.322 - 00:09:52.990, Speaker F: And.
00:09:55.520 - 00:10:43.790, Speaker A: The concept is very simple. It's just sort of setting a minimum price for gas that's enforced at the consensus layer. That's sort of like hard coded or changeable by governance. Hey, guys, I think my Internet kind of broke down, so I'm using my phone wifi. So care bear, if you don't mind, can you remove the utter Yaskuri co host thing? And Josh Stein, if you don't mind, can you start doing the share screen instead? Because I'm using my phone right now, if that's okay. Care bear, do you mind sharing your screen with the agenda? Because I'm jumping around a lot. Yeah, sure.
00:10:43.790 - 00:11:24.360, Speaker A: Thank you. I also don't know if my Internet is stable enough. Okay, let me see if I can. Sorry about that. Like spotty Wi Fi at the Airbnb. Okay, the last thing I was know, I think. Zachie, just to add on top, if any of you on the call are interested in any of the kind of work being done in those working group, feel free to ping me and I'll connect you to the right code chair or chair of the working group, in case you guys want to participate in those working groups.
00:11:24.360 - 00:11:40.140, Speaker A: Next up, we have a bunch of stuff on the agenda. So CIp six, if you guys don't mind clicking on it now, has been moved to last call status with last call deadline ending in a week. So next Tuesday.
00:11:42.260 - 00:11:43.056, Speaker E: We don't have to.
00:11:43.078 - 00:12:41.196, Speaker A: Scroll through it all. But actually, can you just go back to CIP six? I just want to see the preamble. So that's the one about price enforcement by Callum and. Yeah. So what's going to happen? This is a last call review period before it becomes a final status for this specification by column. So the action item is you guys have a week to review it, and if you find any technical issues with the proposal, you can always raise them on the forum post. And that would, if the authors and the court deem it critical, we can move it back from last call back to review status so that it can be updated so it ends in a week on Tuesday.
00:12:41.196 - 00:13:14.932, Speaker A: And, yeah, this is the update on CIP six. If you guys don't mind going backward. Any feedback so far? If you guys have any kind of review comments, I would prefer if you guys do it on the forum post, you can ask Callum maybe if there's something you want to talk about, but otherwise we can move on. 30 seconds. If you guys have anything you want to add. Okay, let's move on to CIP ten. CIP ten.
00:13:14.932 - 00:13:45.120, Speaker A: I just care about the preamble. You don't have to go all the way because people can click on it anyways. But this is also by Callum. It's the coordinated network upgrades proposal. It's currently in review status, which means it's open for review. You guys can review it, check it out. You can discuss on the forum as well if you want to, and if you have any feedback or concern or anything that you want to add there and stuff to the proposal.
00:13:45.120 - 00:14:16.192, Speaker A: And Callum, do you have any kind of questions on the proposal that maybe you want to get feedback on and stuff, but if not, we can just move on. Sorry, there's nothing really, from my side. Yeah. And if you have any questions, bring it up. Okay, sounds good. So, CIP ten is currently in review status. So you guys feel free to review it.
00:14:16.192 - 00:15:03.730, Speaker A: This is a call by the author to have other people review it for feedback. Next, we're going to go to CIp nine and review, which was, I believe, the packet forward middleware by Alex from, I believe, strangelove. So, yeah, now it is currently in review status. So after a certain period, if it's deemed ready for last call, we can move it for, like, a final revision period, but for now, can check it out. If you have any kind of comments or items to discuss, you can discuss it on the forum post. And, Alex, do you have any questions, people to take a look at and stuff? If not, that's totally fine. We can move on.
00:15:03.730 - 00:15:40.364, Speaker A: Please have any comments or feedback in the forum. We'll get back to you. How long do ips stay in review before they go to last call? It depends. So if you deem it ready, if you got any kind of feedback or you think there's no feedback, because I believe the packet forward middleware is already an existing specification in the cosmos ecosystem. I could be mistaken, but I think on that. Moving it to last call. Yeah, moving it to last call.
00:15:40.364 - 00:16:23.748, Speaker A: We would also need to get the rough consensus of the core depth that it's ready for last call, that they don't see anything critical there and stuff before it becomes final. So I would say giving it a couple of weeks in review status, and then by the next time, if there's no any other comments on this proposal, we can move it to last call. Sounds good. Thank you. No problem. CIP twelve is next. So, CIP twelve is the ICS 29 relayer incentivization middleware.
00:16:23.748 - 00:17:00.900, Speaker A: That's by, I believe, the IBC team, and it currently has been moved to review status. And I believe one of the authors, Susanna, is here. So, yeah, the same kind of feedback I gave Alex. We can keep it in review for a couple of weeks until the next call. And if there's no any kind of feedback or concern or anything like that, we can then move it to a final last call. And I believe ICS 29 is already a specified proposal that exists in the cosmos. E proposal here is about adding it to celestia specifically.
00:17:00.900 - 00:17:08.920, Speaker A: Susanna, any kind of comment or feedback or question that you might have for the group Wallace, and review status?
00:17:10.620 - 00:17:21.580, Speaker B: No, that's all correct. Sounds great. And I guess can keep things for the forum and answer there if there's any questions or follow ups.
00:17:23.920 - 00:17:44.070, Speaker A: Sounds good. Now let's go backward. So now there's CIP 14. I believe this is the ICA proposal. So I think for this one, Susanna, since it's the first time it's being presented as a draft status, I think it's helpful to go over the proposal, if you don't mind.
00:17:51.620 - 00:17:53.490, Speaker B: Is Aidan here?
00:17:54.180 - 00:17:55.212, Speaker A: I think. Aidan?
00:17:55.276 - 00:17:56.688, Speaker G: Yeah, I'm also here.
00:17:56.774 - 00:17:57.410, Speaker E: Yes.
00:18:00.340 - 00:18:03.190, Speaker A: Whoever from the authors wants to present. It's not a problem.
00:18:03.640 - 00:18:34.220, Speaker G: Yeah, no problem. So this is CIP 14. What is it? It's a proposal to add interchange accounts to celestia as defined by ICS 27. In particular, the host implementation. ICA is a cross chain account management protocol built on IBC. The way it works under the hood is ICS 27 implementation consists of a module at both ends of an IBC channel. So the one we're proposing adding to Celestia is the host module.
00:18:34.220 - 00:19:12.032, Speaker G: This acts as the account manager and message recipient. So the controller module on an external chain would send messages to be executed on the host chain, which is celestia. In this case. It's been live on many IBC enabled blockchains for a long time. So, Cosmos hub, osmosis, neutron stride the IBC go implementation, I believe, was implemented by the IBC Go team. I think Suzanne can talk a bit more about that. The thinking for adding it is ICA host would make Celestia more interoperable with other IBC protocols.
00:19:12.032 - 00:19:51.220, Speaker G: So the main use case today is liquid staking. Use cases in general depend on the chain. So for osmosis, for example, some other use cases besides liquid staking are pooling lp funds in general. Anything that an EOA could do, an ICA could also do in theory. So it's typically useful if users want to automate things and aggregate actions or what's the best way to. That's kind of the high level overview. Happy to answer questions or go into more technical.
00:19:52.780 - 00:20:08.830, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah. I think there might be questions by maybe the core dev, because I remember when there were the poll with us, there was some discussion points. I don't know if they've been answered or not, but I think that'll be a great opportunity to ask those questions from the current app team.
00:20:16.480 - 00:20:22.130, Speaker F: Yeah, I guess I commented, but Aiden has already answered my question, so don't really need to talk about it here.
00:20:24.260 - 00:20:45.110, Speaker A: Okay. In that case, do you consider the proposal as is sufficient for actually requesting reviews? Aidan, is it ready, or does it have missing sections and stuff, or is it ready for review?
00:20:45.740 - 00:20:51.530, Speaker G: Yeah, the only missing section is test cases. Other than that, it's ready for review.
00:20:53.500 - 00:21:29.700, Speaker A: Okay, sounds good. So I think one action item is, if you can submit, maybe you can talk to Evan and Rutul and Callum about it. But if you can add to the test and cases, if it's necessary, they would have the best context on that. And then feel free to make a pull request, adding to that section and updating it to review status. That means it signals that the authors are ready for the proposal to be reviewed. Okay, that sounds good. All right, sounds good.
00:21:29.700 - 00:21:35.184, Speaker A: Next one is CIP 15. I believe the author, Rutul and Gabriel.
00:21:35.232 - 00:21:36.500, Speaker F: If I'm not mistaken.
00:21:38.920 - 00:21:40.870, Speaker A: Yes. Ruth, you want to kick it off?
00:21:41.420 - 00:22:08.912, Speaker F: Sure. I can quickly talk about this. So, it was just merged recently, so I feel like most people probably haven't had a chance to read it. But the idea behind SiP 15 is to discourage memo usage. That's transaction memo usage. And I guess, like a follow on from that is to actually encourage blob data usage. So the whole point to Celestia, but we can talk about the details on why we want that.
00:22:08.912 - 00:23:07.680, Speaker F: But the two kind of changes that this proposal includes are two governance param changes, one to the max memo characters and one to the transaction size cost per byte. So I think the big highlight is, if you currently use the transaction memo on Celestia, and it's particularly long, like over 16 characters, please come talk to us. I think we're aware of three use cases that do this currently, and we want to account for them and plan around that. The three that we're aware of are, like, inscriptions, type projects. So, like, if you've seen cias. The second is Hermes relayers, who kind of throw a lot of information, like debug diagnostic information, in the transaction memo. And then the third use case is centralized exchanges.
00:23:07.680 - 00:23:50.450, Speaker F: When users deposit into some certain centralized exchanges, they're asked to include a memo to uniquely identify the depositor into the exchange. So if you're not one of those three cases and you use the memo, we'd love to talk to you just to make sure this proposal doesn't break something. And then the other change is kind of like a repricing, like a gas schedule change, which I don't expect to break certain things. It's actually a really conservative change, but it might make certain types of transactions a little bit more expensive, gas wise. That's the idea and the proposal and. Yeah, that's about it.
00:23:54.030 - 00:23:59.590, Speaker A: All right, sounds good. Go ahead.
00:23:59.680 - 00:24:00.800, Speaker H: One quick question.
00:24:01.250 - 00:24:01.614, Speaker A: Sorry.
00:24:01.652 - 00:24:52.494, Speaker H: I appreciate the background riddle. So, this right now, as I understand it. And as you're describing, it applies exclusively to transaction memos as opposed to IBC memos. But I did just want to bring up, like, one, there is this additional field that exists in IBC packets that allows you to add characters in the same way. And two, we use that really extensively for kind of programming into an IBC packet. Kind of additional instructions for that packet to execute on remote chains. And if the memo were shortened similarly to how we're shortening transaction memos here, that would create some significant problems for us.
00:24:52.532 - 00:24:53.214, Speaker F: Right. Totally agree.
00:24:53.252 - 00:24:56.302, Speaker H: I just wanted to mention that, yeah.
00:24:56.356 - 00:25:26.722, Speaker F: We have no plans on decreasing that ics 20 memo length. One thing worth calling out is since the off transaction size cost per byte in this proposal increases from ten to 16, that would make transactions that have really huge ics 20 memos a little bit more expensive. But, yeah, that's not the goal of this proposal. This is just transaction memos. Does that make sense? Yeah.
00:25:26.776 - 00:25:26.994, Speaker A: Cool.
00:25:27.032 - 00:25:28.610, Speaker H: Yeah, super helpful.
00:25:29.270 - 00:25:38.920, Speaker C: So would this kill the relayers? Including the relayed from, like, they'd only have 16 characters to state that?
00:25:39.530 - 00:26:09.680, Speaker F: Yeah, for Hermes relayers that specify a memo that's, like, relayed by Zondin pipe and then the giant Hermes debug information. So basically, like, the release and the version. And then the Hermes informalsystems.com, that message is too long. It doesn't fit in 16 characters. So that would break. So we're talking to them about it, but this wouldn't break.
00:26:09.680 - 00:26:19.060, Speaker F: Transferring from osmosis to Celestia and then swapping and then the ICS middleware stuff. Does that make sense?
00:26:19.750 - 00:26:20.546, Speaker A: Right?
00:26:20.728 - 00:27:11.940, Speaker C: Yeah, I mean, it would be good to at least preserve a long enough memo that the basic relayer version stuff is able to be tracked. 16 is a little short. I see here that the exchanges currently all seem to fit into that. The max is 13, but I can imagine they might want to exchange. I don't actually know what they're putting in those memos, but if they're, like, identifying users and stuff, perhaps they're going to want more space there. So it might be worth setting something a little bit more future proof than 16 and just let the cost cover it. Does that make sense?
00:27:13.110 - 00:27:21.080, Speaker F: Makes sense, yeah, we. We can definitely fudge that number. Like, 16 isn't agreed upon yet.
00:27:21.610 - 00:27:22.214, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:27:22.332 - 00:27:37.130, Speaker C: Like, presumably 32 would be enough to stop the encryption stuff, but still give space for debug and other sort of basic integration use cases that might be important to preserve. But anyway, we can take that to the forum.
00:27:47.020 - 00:28:24.112, Speaker A: Okay. Yeah. I would also recommend if you guys had more questions and stuff on this to. Also you can find the discussion form here if you guys want to talk more about this and stuff. If you have further questions and Rutul, once you deem it ready for review and stuff, I would recommend updating the status in a pr for review. And yeah, any other further questions on the proposal? It seems like there might be discussions on the chat. I don't know.
00:28:24.112 - 00:28:25.750, Speaker A: Julie, you took a look at them?
00:28:28.440 - 00:28:32.310, Speaker F: Yeah, I can respond on the chat, I guess.
00:28:34.940 - 00:29:41.020, Speaker A: Sounds good. Next up, we're going to move to CIP 13. So this one, I'm the author of it. So basically it's pretty with Evan. So basically this is a really straightforward kind of CIP, but the outcome of it is not like a final status, but more like a living document for on chain governance parameter for the Celestia network, where basically it provides a list of all on chain governance parameters that exist on main net and what are their status and actual values. And based on, for example, Rutool's proposal, like if CIP 15 goes to final and then there's an execution on chain to update those value, then in this CIP we would update the value accordingly. So basically the point of this CIP 13 is just to provide a reference point for folks.
00:29:41.020 - 00:30:27.150, Speaker A: If you want to know what are the current up to date values on main net for all the different governance parameters, you can find them here, basically. And it will be a living document that continuously be updated, which is the same way that CIP one is a living document. That will be the point of this. It doesn't really propose any changes. It's just more like a snapshot capture of what is available on Mainnet at the moment, which makes it easier to reference in the future, cips and stuff. It's currently in draft status. I'm probably going to move it to review status later, but I just wanted to give the floor for anyone if they have any questions about this.
00:30:27.150 - 00:31:37.664, Speaker A: All right, you can always use the forum post if you have any feedback on CIP 13. And I think now we reach the end of all the proposal for discussion. Now, one accident item that I would recommend doing for the scope of the core devs call. So the way to think about the core devs call is also it is a working group for the core and consensus layer for Celestia. The same way we have different working groups working on subsections of celestia. This one will also focus on the core protocol itself, at least when it comes to consensus and all other things. And what I would recommend is for the next call, maybe we can start scoping out what we want to see in potentially, like, future upgrade on Celestia and what kind of cips we want to include in such a future upgrade.
00:31:37.664 - 00:32:39.264, Speaker A: So I think I would leave that as an exercise for next time. And I'm hoping the core app team can lead the way in coordination with all the other external core devs teams participating in the call so that we can start scoping out what we want in a future upgrade for Celestia and what cips are candidates for inclusion. And that way we can start the process there and move forward with that. How does that sound for everyone? Sounds good. I got a thumbs up. Anyone has any concern and stuff, I think that's the best way to go about it, because I think that's the whole point of the core dev call, which is to scope out what changes need to be activated at some point. So by next meeting, which we will schedule, I believe, for two weeks time, probably not going to be on a Wednesday, either going to be on a Tuesday or Thursday.
00:32:39.264 - 00:33:32.540, Speaker A: So look out later. I'll post the updates for the next call later, and then we can get started with any kind of future proposals being submitted and scoping out what the hard fork for Celestia will look like, and then we can create a meta cip that kind of captured all the changes we want in that hard fork. And with that said, if there's no more questions, I can end the call and we can have 25 minutes back from our time. But if you guys have any feedback or question now the time. All right, sounds good. Well, thank you, everyone, for joining the call. Pretty exciting stuff, especially all this stuff happening in all the different working groups and all the proposals being submitted today.
00:33:32.540 - 00:33:39.640, Speaker A: And, yeah, I'll talk to you all in two weeks time. Take care. Thanks.
