00:00:00.360 - 00:00:03.710, Speaker A: You okay?
00:00:05.360 - 00:00:20.300, Speaker B: Welcome to 4844, call number 25. So I guess the main things to chat about today are just Devnets. I don't think there were any significant spec updates.
00:00:21.840 - 00:00:24.948, Speaker A: I don't know if I'm wrong.
00:00:24.994 - 00:00:31.190, Speaker B: Think this is the time to bring it up, but nothing as far as I could see.
00:00:31.720 - 00:00:48.712, Speaker C: Yeah, we did release consensus packs last week that have the entire fork build, but that's not the target for Devnet Seven, as I think discussed. And we'll talk about that again on the call mechanism later.
00:00:48.766 - 00:00:48.984, Speaker A: Call.
00:00:49.022 - 00:01:02.060, Speaker C: But if you're sincerely looking at that for the Devnet Seven, you should still target the previous release, but you should probably start parallelizing, building out the other three features that are going into dynam.
00:01:03.840 - 00:01:04.252, Speaker A: Right?
00:01:04.306 - 00:01:38.632, Speaker B: Actually, yeah. And then Alex has a comment as well about the pre compile address. So just, I guess, to reiterate, so Devnet Seven, we agreed on all core devs would be basically just a reboot of Devnet six with hopefully the hive test passing. And so this would not include the pre compile address change. Yes. Six is just dead. I don't know if it's dead right now.
00:01:38.632 - 00:01:40.196, Speaker B: Does anyone have an update on six.
00:01:40.238 - 00:01:47.180, Speaker D: Is kind of finalizing, but with an unfair distribution of keys.
00:01:49.600 - 00:01:50.428, Speaker B: And there's a.
00:01:50.434 - 00:01:52.220, Speaker D: Lot of work to keep it finalizing.
00:01:55.460 - 00:02:00.130, Speaker C: Perry's manually signing what I've been doing.
00:02:02.900 - 00:02:31.630, Speaker B: Bartimus had this Devnet six spec. I don't have edit access. I don't know, Perry, if you do, but maybe we should just rename this doc to say Devnet six plus seven. And I think all the stuff we had as PR candidates for Devnet seven should probably be candidates for Devnet eight. And the one thing we should add alongside that is the pre compile address change.
00:02:35.760 - 00:02:41.292, Speaker C: And are you implying we are likely to do another for Devnet eight?
00:02:41.346 - 00:02:41.950, Speaker B: Or.
00:02:42.640 - 00:02:49.170, Speaker C: It might be full feature, but it would definitely have the PR candidates in there as well.
00:02:51.140 - 00:02:51.776, Speaker A: I'm not sure.
00:02:51.798 - 00:03:07.670, Speaker B: Yeah. Curious to hear from client teams, but it felt like Devnet six didn't go super well. And so I don't know if we want to have Devnet seven be just a rerun or also have Devnet eight just focus on four. Four, four.
00:03:08.140 - 00:03:22.140, Speaker E: I would like definite seven to be just a rerun. Yeah, definite eight. I don't know. Kind of depends on how definite seven goes, in my opinion.
00:03:24.560 - 00:03:25.640, Speaker B: Alexa.
00:03:25.800 - 00:03:28.750, Speaker D: I'd say we keep doing this until we have, like.
00:03:33.220 - 00:03:38.530, Speaker C: Yeah, I think I agree. Introducing other complexity at this point seems crazy.
00:03:43.010 - 00:03:45.120, Speaker A: Alexey? I don't know. Yeah.
00:03:45.730 - 00:04:04.600, Speaker E: Hello, guys. Just wanted to say that probably precompile address changes are not so complex and could be included too. It will allow a QA to react and to update tests with new addresses and so on.
00:04:05.610 - 00:04:10.934, Speaker A: Might be cool to have to this.
00:04:10.972 - 00:04:24.380, Speaker E: Update, I mean recompile update and probably update for g one, g two operations which in conflict with this pre compile address.
00:04:32.350 - 00:04:40.380, Speaker B: What's the compile update? Sorry, what do you mean about that specifically? Okay, yeah. Okay. Yeah, sorry, the mic comes too big.
00:04:41.550 - 00:04:41.914, Speaker A: Okay.
00:04:41.952 - 00:04:52.650, Speaker B: So yeah, pre compile update should be in Devnet eight basically. Enrico.
00:04:53.550 - 00:05:49.120, Speaker F: Yeah, I just want to say that integrity, we are working directly on Master Branch, so we are kind of okay to relaunch Devnet seven with the same characteristic of Devnet six. Because actually if there is something to fix, we could branch from previous commits if really want to do some hot fix. But then on Dovenet eight we definitely would like to have alignment in what is inside the current denab merge spec. Otherwise we are too much disaligned with the master spec because we want to start to implementing stuff and our master branch will not support another run of Devnet eight with an online spec.
00:05:51.730 - 00:06:33.500, Speaker C: So I guess fortunately 70 44 and 70 45 are not cross layer. If we got to the point where the consensus layer had beacon route, whatever that 4788 implemented, it could still be a no op on the execution layer because the only thing that the IP does is pass it in. So we do have some optionality if people are in the position of wanting to get those couple of features in, even if the execution layer is not in accordance. So I guess we'll just kind of have to keep talking about it. But it's good to know that that is important to you all.
00:06:43.610 - 00:06:44.134, Speaker A: I guess.
00:06:44.172 - 00:06:50.310, Speaker B: Yeah. Before we move on. Okay. Oh, there already has a new document.
00:06:52.990 - 00:06:53.690, Speaker A: Okay.
00:06:53.840 - 00:06:56.890, Speaker D: I couldn't rename it, so I just copied over the contents.
00:06:57.310 - 00:07:07.140, Speaker B: Okay, got it. Okay, so let's see how Devnet seven goes this week.
00:07:09.990 - 00:07:10.658, Speaker A: I guess.
00:07:10.744 - 00:07:15.220, Speaker B: Is this a realistic timeline to launch it sometime in the next week or so?
00:07:19.120 - 00:07:41.930, Speaker D: I think so. It looks like Geth and other men are already passing tests. I just haven't had a chance to run it against Aragon and Bezu, but if they do as well, then we're good to go. Their last message from Mario was that there's no Cl engine API test yet. It's only el engine API tests. So I guess we'll have to wing the Cl side.
00:07:43.020 - 00:07:44.010, Speaker A: Got it.
00:07:48.060 - 00:08:18.050, Speaker B: And then one other thing that came up. I don't know if this came up on awkward devs or where it bubbled up from. But there's a conversation. So we discussed having basically JSON RPC support for what was Devnet seven and now would probably be Devnet eight. And one thing that came up as part of that was making sure that APIs generally work well for the users of blobs. So like l two s. So I don't know.
00:08:18.050 - 00:09:05.600, Speaker B: Matt not on the call, but he brought this up. But I guess that's something that would be good to do in the next couple of weeks. Just thinking through, do we have a JSON RPC scheme that's useful for l two s to submit blob and sort of interact with four? And I guess, Roberto, maybe that's something that the base team could share thoughts on because you all be users. What would the correct APIs look like for you to interact with this? And yeah, in parallel we can reach out potentially some other. Lt's to get some feedback.
00:09:06.580 - 00:09:13.040, Speaker G: Yeah, that's something we can try to provide input on. I don't think we thought it through very far yet, but we can certainly spend some time on it.
00:09:13.190 - 00:09:13.468, Speaker A: Right?
00:09:13.494 - 00:09:32.296, Speaker B: Yeah, I don't think anyone has. So I think it's probably as we get the consensus side of things stabilized, that's probably the next thing we want. So that we make sure that it all makes sense. Yeah, that's pretty much all we had on the agenda.
00:09:32.328 - 00:09:35.020, Speaker A: I don't know if there's anything else.
00:09:35.090 - 00:09:36.510, Speaker B: People wanted to chat about.
00:09:41.090 - 00:10:36.160, Speaker H: So on the lighthouse side, we've had a couple of pain points with the CKCG lib. So I was just wondering about a couple of open prs there. One of which is to allow us to compile the main net and minimal versions of the library and use them both at the same time, which is really useful in our testing. I guess I was wondering the status, if anyone has any status on that or the likelihood of the pr. I just linked in, the chat merged. Yeah, I don't think George is on the call and he might know, so try to find him offline.
00:10:37.460 - 00:10:45.120, Speaker B: And that was the biggest blocker. You mentioned a couple prs, but is that one the biggest blocker for sigma?
00:10:45.280 - 00:10:57.050, Speaker H: See, this is the biggest one. There's also another open pr about CKZG with windows, which we're also going to have to start out.
00:11:01.260 - 00:11:02.250, Speaker B: Got it.
00:11:06.240 - 00:11:06.990, Speaker A: Okay.
00:11:07.520 - 00:11:16.910, Speaker B: Yeah, it doesn't seem like there's many people from CKDG on the call, but we can definitely flag this to them.
00:11:18.240 - 00:11:19.980, Speaker A: Yeah, async.
00:11:28.950 - 00:11:30.420, Speaker B: Anything else?
00:11:39.150 - 00:11:50.430, Speaker F: I would want to know when can we expect the real trusted setup to be baked in from the ceremony.
00:11:53.250 - 00:12:23.320, Speaker C: So I know Carl and Trent are working on a blog post this week that will give information about the trusted ceremony wrapping up and the date that it will wrap up. So then we'll have it at that point. I don't know if that's plus two weeks or plus six weeks from now, but it is certainly in the process. It's shifting into the ending process, so should be some information soon.
00:12:35.410 - 00:12:37.540, Speaker B: Sorry, Maris, you were saying something as well.
00:12:39.270 - 00:13:42.310, Speaker E: Yes. So if you're passing hive today, your transaction pool implementation is actually wrong, or at least has some issues. So there are two bugs in the hive tests right now. One is in the suit that does the transaction, the transaction replacement. So in this suit, you send a few transactions and you replace other transactions. The problem is that only the gas price is increased, not the data gas price. So that opens up a few attacks that you can do by replacing block transactions.
00:13:42.310 - 00:13:57.622, Speaker E: And the other test that is broken is the one that the transaction propagation.
00:13:57.686 - 00:13:58.300, Speaker A: One.
00:14:00.670 - 00:15:08.850, Speaker E: In this test. Also, the gas price on gas price needs to be adjusted. Basically the idea behind this test is you send five transactions with five blobs each to one node and five transactions with one blob each to the other node, and then you should produce five blocks with six blobs each. So one transaction from each node. The problem is that the transactions are priced the same, and so it could be that you're building like a block with one or two or five one blob transactions instead of doing this like five plus one blob transactions. So the test is going to be changed, but that's not really an issue in the implementations because the transactions are priced the same. So they should be okay to be put in.
00:15:08.850 - 00:15:49.386, Speaker E: But clients might non deterministically fail this check as Gath did, because there's basically no order between those transactions that are priced the same. Um, but the replacement one, that is something that clients should look at into their transaction pool implementation. It's fine for you if you want to allow data gas replacement transactions with the same data gas, but I think it's bad because it can introduce quite a lot of churn.
00:15:49.578 - 00:15:56.732, Speaker A: That's it. Thanks.
00:15:56.886 - 00:15:59.300, Speaker B: Anyone thoughts? Comments?
00:16:01.080 - 00:16:45.920, Speaker I: I think I can add some more context to why the test was written like that. So the idea was that since the data gas price doesn't really affect the miner or the profit in any way that the miner could receive. So the idea was that the data gas can be the same and it wouldn't matter to the miner. But yeah, as Mary said, I guess it depends on the logic that you're applying to the replacement. So I think it should be discussed. I can just change the test if that's okay. But I think it should be discussed in regards to what to do or which transactions to replace.
00:16:46.500 - 00:16:58.690, Speaker A: Yeah, got it.
00:17:03.570 - 00:17:20.346, Speaker B: Anything else? I guess, yeah, anything else? Just in general, around four. Four?
00:17:20.388 - 00:17:31.390, Speaker A: Four. Okay.
00:17:32.800 - 00:18:05.300, Speaker B: Yeah, I guess it makes sense to keep probably a couple more of these calls and see how they go. I think if they become shorter and shorter, and we obviously cover a lot of this stuff in awkward devs, maybe, I don't know, in the next month or so we can start phasing them out. Probably makes sense to do that once we start moving from four exclusive devnets to full Denkoon devnets.
00:18:07.020 - 00:18:08.616, Speaker A: But yeah, I would at least keep.
00:18:08.638 - 00:18:18.510, Speaker B: The one two weeks from now. Any final comments for wrap up?
00:18:20.240 - 00:18:21.948, Speaker C: Am I running that call?
00:18:22.114 - 00:18:23.996, Speaker B: Yeah, you are. In two weeks.
00:18:24.178 - 00:18:25.004, Speaker A: Okay.
00:18:25.202 - 00:18:34.030, Speaker B: Yeah. And then if we do a really good job, I won't have to run one in four weeks. So let's see how it goes.
00:18:34.880 - 00:18:38.260, Speaker A: All cool.
00:18:38.330 - 00:18:40.790, Speaker B: Well, thanks everyone. Talk to you soon.
00:18:42.440 - 00:18:44.630, Speaker A: Thanks. Bye. Thank you.
00:18:45.080 - 00:18:45.552, Speaker B: Bye.
00:18:45.616 - 00:18:46.850, Speaker A: See you. See you guys.
