00:00:03.240 - 00:00:03.884, Speaker A: All right.
00:00:05.865 - 00:00:06.845, Speaker B: Good to go.
00:00:07.905 - 00:00:08.441, Speaker C: Woo.
00:00:08.513 - 00:00:09.525, Speaker B: Thank you everybody.
00:00:15.065 - 00:00:15.441, Speaker C: Awesome.
00:00:15.473 - 00:00:41.565, Speaker B: Thank you all for coming. We can just start off with some quick intros and maybe what makes you most bullish on our ability to solve Interop in 2025. And what topic are you most excited to get to today? If you want to, we. Maybe we can start with Hai Shen. Can't hear. Mike is not working for Hai Shen.
00:00:42.145 - 00:00:43.685, Speaker A: Let me save the date.
00:00:51.545 - 00:00:52.325, Speaker C: Hello.
00:00:55.155 - 00:00:58.255, Speaker D: Hi. Okay.
00:00:59.835 - 00:01:00.735, Speaker E: All right.
00:01:04.395 - 00:01:07.331, Speaker D: Okay. Oh, okay. No, perfect. Hello everyone.
00:01:07.403 - 00:01:08.563, Speaker C: Oh, sorry.
00:01:08.699 - 00:01:08.971, Speaker A: Hello.
00:01:09.003 - 00:01:33.245, Speaker D: Emma Hai Chen. I'm co founder from Scroll. I guess like so scroll is building the zkevm. ZKEVM for the ZK Rob. So what I mostly excited about is I think all of the L2s get to sit down and then talk about how to solve the interoperability problem. I think that's the most important thing I will see for this event.
00:01:43.985 - 00:01:46.125, Speaker F: Should that be good. Oh, there we go.
00:01:47.145 - 00:01:47.537, Speaker B: All right.
00:01:47.561 - 00:02:11.565, Speaker F: I'm Mark Boran, I'm the CEO at Polygon Labs. I think for relevant purposes here, we're contributing to the AG layer to build out interoperability across Ethereum. I'm excited because I fundamentally believe that we can create Interop that makes Ethereum feel like one again the way it did a few years ago. And so I'm kind of pumped to come together to make that happen.
00:02:24.155 - 00:02:42.975, Speaker E: Hello. Hello. Oh, it works. So I'm Nicola. I lead the line team. Got a background in distributed cement research. We started the research on roll ups in 2019 and I think as everyone, the main point is to to make Ethereum compatible again as much as possible.
00:02:42.975 - 00:02:46.615, Speaker E: And there's a lot of work but we'll be able to do it.
00:02:49.195 - 00:03:11.661, Speaker G: Hey, my name is Mark and I am a contributor to the Optimism collective. I am really bullish on us making a lot of progress on shipping Interop in 2025. There are just so many low hanging fruits and we just got to go out there, we got to pick them, we got to focus on user stories.
00:03:11.853 - 00:03:12.181, Speaker C: Right?
00:03:12.213 - 00:04:00.885, Speaker G: We have to kind of come up with a shared vision for what we want the user experience of using Ethereum to be and then we can work backwards from that. We don't need crazy protocol changes to do this. We just have to agree what the ideal user experience of using Ethereum and all the L2s are. And there's a lot of stuff we can do outside of the protocol at the application layer. And a lot of the L2 tech stacks are maturing. We need to kind of get out of this fight for survival where we're stuck making short term decisions. And now we have credible competition from other ecosystems like Solana.
00:04:00.885 - 00:04:41.305, Speaker G: And I don't think we would be here right now if it wasn't for Solana growing challenging us. And I think this is a good thing. Competition is good. So I want Ethereum to win. And I'm a big believer in turning zero sum games into positive sum games. I think that if we just start deciding to play positive sum games with each other, I think that we can, you know, make positive sum games the best outcome for all of Ethereum and grow the whole pie.
00:04:43.605 - 00:05:28.825, Speaker A: Hi everyone, I'm Ed Felton. I'm co founder and chief scientist at Off Chain Labs, the original developers of Arbitrum. And I've been saying on panels all week that I reject this narrative of Ethereum fragmentation or fragmentation in the Ethereum stack. Where others see fragmentation, I see diversity, customizability and user choice. But the key to really moving not only the narrative, but more importantly the reality from fragmentation to diversity and choice is interop. And that's why we're all here. And I think I agree with what others have said, that if we focus on the progress that's available to us, we can make user experience much better in the near future.
00:05:30.005 - 00:06:19.197, Speaker C: Testing. Okay, it actually works. Yay. So I think for me, I'll give my one sentence definition of what the goals of interoperability are. Basically, I think the goal is that the Ethereum L1 plus L2 universe needs to have the same security and convenience properties that we would have expected and demanded Ethereum to have had we done execution sharding. So I think if you think about it that way, then every single item that we've talked about, whether it's cross chain sends or addresses or light clients or smart wallets or any of these other topics, just like naturally falls out of that. And so I think for me, having that as a central goal is something that's really valuable.
00:06:19.197 - 00:07:20.725, Speaker C: And I think the reason why I'm excited is that like, Ethereum has always had a strength of having diverse teams that are all taking diverse approaches and doing different things, but at the same time actually working together where it counts. This is a thing that we've been doing between client teams for a decade. And to me, this is the first time where we're taking that exact same approach and repeating it with both L2 protocols and with wallets. Right. I think Ethereum ecosystem interoperability is not just a L2 problem, it's also very much a wallet problem. And I think having people from Both sets of ecosystems here is going to be valuable. And I think we'll get like, actually make some very concrete agreements and steps today and get much further toward getting Ethereum interoperability done.
00:07:22.585 - 00:07:41.627, Speaker H: Hello, I'm. I'm Marcin. I build on Ethereum. What I build is actually ZK sync and I think this is the common thing for all of us. Here we are, we are Ethereum builders. First and second is for all the features that our L2s are proposing. The thing that makes me most bullish is the fact that we're all here.
00:07:41.627 - 00:08:22.865, Speaker H: Maybe it's sponsored by Solana. You're right. Maybe they are the ones who cause us to come. But we're here in person. It's not quick Twitter pings left and right, but we're actually here and ready to talk on how to make sure that not only our systems get better, but also users kind of get benefits from it. Rather than trying for us to lock users into our system, we want to establish these ground rules, we want to establish these common patterns to make it easier for future builders to be able to choose from diverse systems that we're building. So very excited to be here and talk about it.
00:08:23.645 - 00:08:59.107, Speaker I: Hi, I'm Brecht. I work at Taiko. So, yeah, we're like a base rollup. And I guess one of the benefits of being a base rollup is that you have, well, in theory at least, you can work together, you have composability between the based roll ups and the exciting thing here is that there are actually more based rollups now popping up. So it's like for a long time this was only techo, but now there's many projects that are trying to build a base roll up. And all these kind of based roll ups do have the intention to kind of closely work together and try to solve some of the fragmentations or whatever you want to call it. So, yeah, that's kind of exciting.
00:08:59.107 - 00:09:14.575, Speaker I: People are kind of excited about it. Based roll ups are getting better, like a day or two. We had the first base preconfirmation on mainnet. There's still quite a long road to get there, but these things are getting better. We are trying to be composable and again, I'm very excited for that.
00:09:16.805 - 00:09:17.637, Speaker H: Daddy.
00:09:17.781 - 00:09:18.665, Speaker D: Daddy.
00:09:21.285 - 00:10:06.579, Speaker B: Thank you all. So, first topic for the group, what is the biggest obstacle to solving Interop? And this is something that we've all been talking about over the past few days. It's actually something that is not a technical challenge. It's more of a coordination and communication human challenge. We all have this shared vision for what we want Ethereum to become. And we all genuinely believe that solving this thing, getting this thing, is critical to actually unlocking that vision. So yes, what is the biggest thing that we can do to make meaningful progress? Not in years, but in months? Hopefully in the first half of 2025 maybe whoever wants to start first, we can start on this side.
00:10:06.707 - 00:10:50.275, Speaker H: Right. So as you mentioned, the main problem is not technical. The main problem is if you think about it as a prisoner's dilemma, we're this crazy lock where on one side the current status quo is if each one of us looks selfish, the current status quo is like, hey, let's build something special just in my ecosystem and let's try to get people into the ecosystem. But at the same time this is something that will cause us pain going forward. So the thing is tldr, it's not technical. It's about us sitting here in these discussions that will start here and will continue over the Internet and actually talking about these layers of common things that we can build together.
00:10:51.215 - 00:11:18.585, Speaker A: To me it's more of a coordination problem. There are a lot of us, there are a lot of L2s, a lot of L3s, different L2 app chains and many of the things that we need to do are not that difficult to do. We just need to agree on the details of how to do it, what are the formats, what are the expectations and so on. I think we all know how to do that. We just need to get in a room and do it. And so here we are in a room.
00:11:19.045 - 00:12:00.715, Speaker C: Yeah, I mean I think for me, I also feel like there's this limiting belief, like there's this perception that like oh, decentralized ecosystem systems can't coordinate and if they do this requires this like years long winding standards process. And I think we can just get past it if we just agree that we're not doing that. Like I personally want for everyone here today before we get out of the room to agree. One, we are doing on chain configs, two we're doing chain specific addresses and just agree flat out before we get out so that these are things that we're doing in agreement approximately roadmap for that. And I think if we can be aggressive on the timeline then we can make meaningful ends before the end of this year.
00:12:01.175 - 00:12:24.565, Speaker D: I think the one important things we're seeing here is align the goal. What is the goal for the interop? Is it from some clusters, which cluster good enough? Or should we push for all of the layer 2 in the same to be have a way to interact with each other. I think if we align the goal then we can set like what's the path to that goal.
00:12:25.225 - 00:12:54.061, Speaker G: I think the way to think about this is the goal should be rooted in a desired user experience. So saying something like any Ethereum user can reliably transfer their funds from one L2 to another L2 in 20 minutes. Like that might be one goal. And then we kind of have to work backwards from there towards the technical requirements to enable that.
00:12:54.213 - 00:13:03.557, Speaker C: Okay, what is this 20 seconds number 20 minutes number 12 seconds. Come on, you know us can do two seconds. Optimism to arbitrary. I'm like, come on, get off your butt here.
00:13:03.701 - 00:13:07.413, Speaker G: I just picked a random number. If we want to become more ambitious, let's do it.
00:13:07.589 - 00:13:15.323, Speaker C: Yeah, okay. Low value amounts that would go liquidity providers can handle, let's say three slots of the slower of the two chains.
00:13:15.419 - 00:13:19.827, Speaker G: Like three slots of the slower of the 2 chains.
00:13:19.891 - 00:13:22.235, Speaker C: Yeah. Okay.
00:13:22.275 - 00:13:23.363, Speaker A: Yep. Should be possible.
00:13:23.419 - 00:13:30.135, Speaker C: Right? Come on. The process like literally doing it between you two guys already.
00:13:32.035 - 00:13:34.535, Speaker G: All right, somebody better be taking notes.
00:13:36.505 - 00:14:03.031, Speaker F: I mean, I'll say the thing that most people probably don't want to say. I think incentives are like completely misaligned. It is just reality. I think I'm not going to hold Polygon up to some higher standard. We are building an interrupt that is intended for everyone. We will connect OP Stack and ARB chains in the next month to the AG layer and we will connect ZK Stack chains to the AG layer. The goal is for something that is Ethereum wide.
00:14:03.031 - 00:14:43.625, Speaker F: And frankly I actually think that we're getting to a point where we benefit from certain assets coming into the Ethereum ecosystem. Beyond that, but leaving to Ethereum, like I think the thing is this is already possible and I think Mark, the way you're describing like that user first experience is 100% what we need to describe. But I think like to be like super explicit about it, like almost everyone here has a token that has been issued and that creates a certain set of incentives. And I think we should be like very realistic about like how that fits into fuel future plans. Because I don't think we're going to solve anything if we don't actually acknowledge that reality and then say, okay, so knowing that reality, what do we now do with it to reach this goal of kind of interop with an ideal user experience.
00:14:45.165 - 00:14:52.145, Speaker I: So did you say like if we do our job well, layer 2s could be obsolete in like five years and we're okay with that?
00:14:52.445 - 00:15:16.207, Speaker F: I mean the Reality is like Ethereum should be building towards the best reality possible. And like, my view is like, right, most of Web2 is going to be eaten up by Web3. There'll still be some normal use cases for Web2. It makes sense. Ethereum can't do it on its own, so there's going to be need to be something that exists on top of Ethereum. That's the whole point in the roadmap that actually exists. Right.
00:15:16.207 - 00:15:54.477, Speaker F: And so then the question is, given that roadmap, what is the ideal user experience in five years from now? Right. And if that means less L2s, then that means less L2s like that, that has to be like the target if that's the end goal, which it is. And so, yeah, like, I think we're going to be at a point where, I mean, we're already at a point where we have too many of the same L2s. I think we'll look fast, fast forward five years from now and probably say we don't actually need that many of them. And so, yeah, I think we'll have a small, smaller number than we actually all envision if we kind of do this right as well.
00:15:54.501 - 00:17:00.135, Speaker E: I mean, when we're speaking about interoperability, there are multiple dimensions. One of them is actually the developer experience dimension, which is having the same smart contract deployed without any other audits in mainnet or in other L2. So there's really this developer dimension and there's the user experience dimension, which is, oh, I can transfer easily from one roll up to another, but it's as well the way the GAS is estimated, is it the same? The account abstraction logic, is it the same? Or do we divide the user experience by layer 2? And then we do have a contradiction, which is maybe not even the incentivization, but it's okay. We are not sure about what to do. So we do bets on some options and the other are going to do bets on other options. And how are we going to reconcile? And there's really this strategy. Do we try first and then do we try to reorganize or do we think first and then do we do things? So I do believe that it's interesting to think first and to try to coordinate, to try to look at what the others are doing and are doing and let's do the same thing.
00:17:00.135 - 00:17:33.775, Speaker E: I think it's useful as well to be ready to change if we're saying that we're doing something and we see that there's a majority going somewhere else and we should Change this. For example, the state representation at a very low level is incredibly different between all the L2s. But maybe we should actually converge to a single representation in the next five years. So I think we should build for change. That's quite important. And I think we should be very careful on your point to think that we're going to be smarter than everybody else individually because yes, we can be incentivized to be smarter. Speaking to vc, yes, I'm smarter than everybody else.
00:17:33.775 - 00:17:52.003, Speaker E: I will have a best solution that will destroy everything. I don't think it's going to be that true actually. So we should say the truth to Vitzie, which is, oh yeah, we are doing something because it's important. But actually on the long term, maybe we won't be differentiated because it will make the cake bigger even if we have a smaller piece of it.
00:17:52.099 - 00:18:20.005, Speaker H: But Mark, you had a very good point, is that yes, incentives are aligned in a different direction. And here the other Mark actually brought a reason why we're here now. Because we as the whole ecosystem have competition now. Sure, we, we will be fighting. Of course on Twitter we'll be like, hey, you guys didn't do this, we did this. Of course it's natural, but usually what brings people together is a common goal, common enemy, and we suddenly have both.
00:18:21.385 - 00:18:52.741, Speaker C: I want to dispel this myth that like Ethereum suddenly has competition. It did not before. This is like I think a way more narrow view than we should have. Look, sipa single hero payments area, that is credible competition. It's just improved massively over the last 10 years. Payments inside of the United States, like Fedwire, all of the improvements in moving money within the United States, credible competition improved massively over the last 10 years. In 2012, if you use like, if you remember how Bitcoin was advertised, Bitcoin was advertised as being the cheaper way to send money.
00:18:52.741 - 00:19:12.613, Speaker C: You did not have to wait multiple days. Your transaction fees were less than $0.01. PayPal took $0.30 and you had to pay 6% for anything international. Like most of those barriers in the centralized system are now like five or 10 times lower than they were before. Right. Then let's look at AI.
00:19:12.613 - 00:19:39.105, Speaker C: Right? So if the decentralized world doesn't step up, then like the friggin centralized world that's based in San Francisco is just going to like take over everything and possibly blow up the world in 10 or 20 years. Okay, so like Ethereum ecosystem, like the centralized world itself, there's a much bigger world than this and it's Moving forward very quickly and if we want the thing that we really need to be keeping up is not like putting ourselves against other blockchains, it is with that.
00:19:47.635 - 00:19:49.655, Speaker H: I guess. SEPA is not on Twitter. So.
00:19:51.595 - 00:20:32.141, Speaker B: Building off of what Vitalik touched on earlier with on chain configs and chain specific addresses, I'm wondering if we can what tangible and specific commitments we want to make here today in that sort of. In that spirit or perhaps what we've also touched on earlier, perhaps this idea of having a formal, some sort of formal working group that can sort of the bare minimum here. So yes, we at least agree that we will have representatives at this working group that will work towards things like on chain configs and chain specific addresses just to. Yeah, I'm curious what everyone here thinks around those ideas and making specific commitments here today.
00:20:32.253 - 00:20:33.625, Speaker A: Yeah, let's do it.
00:20:34.085 - 00:20:47.677, Speaker C: Maybe. Hold on, hold on. Let's. We're going to put a fire under everyone. We're going to go left to right and no one's lead until people say yes. So your turn. Unchained configs, what do you think?
00:20:47.781 - 00:20:53.949, Speaker I: It's going to be a long panel. Yes, yes, I agree, I agree these are very important things we have to do.
00:20:54.037 - 00:20:54.665, Speaker C: Ok.
00:20:59.325 - 00:20:59.925, Speaker J: Sure.
00:21:00.045 - 00:21:01.945, Speaker A: Ok. Yeah, let's get to work on it.
00:21:03.005 - 00:21:15.145, Speaker G: Yes, but conditional on having a very clear user story that shows end to end how it solves a problem for an Ethereum user today.
00:21:16.085 - 00:21:57.303, Speaker C: Okay, I can give the user story. So the difference between on chain configs and the status quo is that in the status quo in order for a user to be able to communicate with a chain at all that chain has to be on chain list and if it's not then like you don't have a way to communicate with it. We're also going to have many more L2s. Examples of that would be a chain that just gets quickly spun up for some game or some or some voting instance. There's more and more of these coming up and we want user like we want to have a world where as a developer your story is. It should be permissionless for you to set up a chain and be compatible with things. Does that satisfy you?
00:21:57.399 - 00:21:57.863, Speaker G: Yes.
00:21:57.959 - 00:21:59.315, Speaker C: Okay, your turn.
00:22:00.095 - 00:22:10.657, Speaker E: So yes as well we've got small but that we should define exactly what we want to do because if we don't put some precise goals it will be a lot of meetings without any finger shift at the end.
00:22:10.841 - 00:22:24.805, Speaker C: Okay, as a precise goal, how about at the minimum take in the information that is on chainlist.org including chain ID and like very basic parameters and agree for that information to be on L1.
00:22:25.705 - 00:22:26.233, Speaker E: Yes.
00:22:26.329 - 00:22:27.645, Speaker C: Okay, your turn.
00:22:30.425 - 00:22:38.855, Speaker F: Yes. And I'll just repeat the caveat. I think what Mark said is just like bottom line is as we go through this, just keep in mind all the time.
00:22:38.975 - 00:22:39.407, Speaker C: Okay?
00:22:39.471 - 00:22:40.919, Speaker D: And yeah, I'll say yes.
00:22:41.007 - 00:22:44.515, Speaker C: Okay. Amazing. Okay, let's everyone clap. We have our first agreement.
00:22:52.615 - 00:22:53.875, Speaker H: So we're done, right?
00:22:54.415 - 00:22:57.129, Speaker C: I mean we can keep, we can keep going if we're.
00:22:57.207 - 00:23:05.625, Speaker B: I think we can keep going. Are there any opening it up to the panel? Are there questions anyone has for anyone else on the panel for Vitalik or. Vitalik, do you have questions for the panel here?
00:23:06.645 - 00:23:26.125, Speaker C: Ok, how about we'll just increase our like level of buoyancy and do a round two of this, which is if we have chain specific configs, does that, does it feel a good idea for us in the longer term? Doesn't it have to be first priority to also specify how to do things like state proofs so that we can have Universal Layer 2 light clients?
00:23:28.985 - 00:23:56.565, Speaker H: That's a more complex thing because the main dilemma is how much we want L2s to be different, to be able to explore different trade offs versus we want them to follow like one standard. Of course, it's one of these things where it's hard for us to predict what will be in a couple years and if we decide on, okay, this is exactly the format we want, then maybe in a couple of years there's some new breakthrough whatnot and it will suddenly be like, yeah, but no one's exploring this because everybody has to stay on the same.
00:23:57.145 - 00:24:37.415, Speaker C: Okay. So I think actually for me the idea of putting in the config actually precisely is the flexibility maximizing approach. Right? Because the flexibility minimizing approach is basically we go around here and we basically just say everyone has to adopt verkle, right? And I'm saying let's not do that. Let's support maximum flexibility, but let's support the goal of putting out information in a standardized format that enables L2Lite clients, which follows the goal, which is we want L2s to have the same property as the properties that we would have demanded Ethereum to have had it done execution sharding. And one of those properties necessarily is like client friendliness.
00:24:38.755 - 00:24:58.785, Speaker I: So we are all purist, right? We always stick to whatever Ethereum does. But how would you enforce the same security properties if there is diversity? So that's kind of the problem I have with these. Well, okay, I want to customize, but how do you have a uniform experience in different ways. I'm not sure how you combine the two.
00:24:58.945 - 00:25:13.373, Speaker C: I agree there's two axes. One of them is having a format and then having a common language and then the other is the thing under the common language actually of being secure. Any other thoughts on that topic?
00:25:13.469 - 00:25:22.117, Speaker D: Curious. What is you think the property we should enforce putting L2 to be compatible with?
00:25:22.261 - 00:25:38.895, Speaker C: Yeah OK, so my underlying goal is that I want a world where if my Ethereum wallet tells me that I have coins across L1 and a collection of L2s, I want that to be verified with like client proof so that the number is correct without me having to trust RBCs.
00:25:40.155 - 00:25:47.307, Speaker A: So this may be as much as anything around creating standard APIs.
00:25:47.411 - 00:25:47.787, Speaker C: Yes.
00:25:47.851 - 00:25:54.579, Speaker A: And then having a convention that will provide open source software that people can plug into their wallets or other tools.
00:25:54.747 - 00:26:26.025, Speaker G: I guess this seems like an obvious win, especially if really popular wallets integrate it and then that will create the incentive for the L2s to actually conform to the standard. Because if the popular wallets are able to be like clients for some chains and not other chains, then the other chains will want to also be light client compatible. So starting with a standard that chains can opt into seems like a really good approach.
00:26:27.045 - 00:26:55.645, Speaker D: I think one thing for the on chain you need to post the state route, otherwise it's not like light client. I think for the ZK rops it doesn't seem like a big problem because the fantastic the state route finality for the ZKROP is very short so you can read a more recent state route. But I guess question is for optimistic rops because you need to wait a long time for the state route to finalize on the layer one. So how would this on chain stay?
00:26:56.275 - 00:27:50.153, Speaker C: I think okay, so for me actually it's equally a problem for optimistic and validity rollups and the reason I say that is that like I don't think like having proven access like provable access to the chain should be this like afterthought that you have to wait even 10 minutes for. I think it should be the default standard even for like very like rapid accesses that users do already and even validity rollups. Right? You have like on chain data dumps more frequently than you have state routes. You often have pre confirmations more frequently than you have on chain data dumps and like these are all things the verification for which can also be standardized. Okay, I mean maybe do you think it's fair to summarize this as like this is a desired goal but this is clearly an earlier stage research topic than other things.
00:27:50.329 - 00:27:50.833, Speaker H: Definitely.
00:27:50.889 - 00:27:51.525, Speaker D: Yeah.
00:27:51.905 - 00:27:53.645, Speaker C: See this is good. Okay.
00:27:55.825 - 00:28:04.369, Speaker D: One thing that I want to add to that is I think this is a good direction and then we need to think about what are the real impact to the users. Like what can this enable the users?
00:28:04.537 - 00:28:30.235, Speaker C: Yeah, I mean I think. Yeah, that's like. To be clear, I don't even think it's necessarily useful to have this solved before most roll ups are at like stage one and stage two. Right. And I think historically like that's been the reason why up until this year no one has really even bothered to solve the problem. Right. But now like we have stage one roll ups and we have Helios actually doing some light client work.
00:28:30.235 - 00:28:37.251, Speaker C: So it's one of those like things that's worth like putting in the, you know, the medium term bucket.
00:28:37.363 - 00:29:07.335, Speaker H: So one, one thing that will probably cause us to accelerate this is something that didn't happen yet and knock on the wood, it will not happen soon is scammy roll ups. With more and more app chains us working very hard to make easier and easier for people to launch the app chain roll ups, we are bound to see roll ups that are created just as honeypots, just as a way of getting people assets out. And that will be an interesting experiment to c. Yeah, agree.
00:29:11.555 - 00:29:41.273, Speaker A: Since we're at a pause, I would like to make a pitch that we not forget the L3s. Right. Nowadays about half of the total gas consumption in the Ethereum stack is in L3s. And whatever it is we do, I hope that we can. Some of it will just transfer or apply directly to L3s, but in some cases the fact that there may be two layers of settlement may affect what we're doing. So just a plea to not Forget about the L3s.
00:29:41.369 - 00:29:43.313, Speaker H: Do we have any L4s already?
00:29:43.489 - 00:29:45.793, Speaker A: Yes, I know of at least one.
00:29:45.889 - 00:29:46.289, Speaker H: Wow.
00:29:46.377 - 00:29:50.565, Speaker C: You know, there used to be a company doing SD channels that was called L4.
00:29:55.145 - 00:29:55.481, Speaker I: Cool.
00:29:55.513 - 00:30:20.135, Speaker B: So maybe taking a quick step back and going back to what we started off with at the beginning, we talk a lot about how yes, L2s are Ethereum, but arguably we don't always do the best job at perhaps walking that and actually treating L2s like first class citizens. So I wanted to maybe pose that to Vitalik you initially and see what you think about that and then open it up.
00:30:20.675 - 00:31:18.355, Speaker C: Yeah, I mean I think there's like two levels at which it happens. There's like third party dashboards that try to say like position, say Ethereum versus arbitrum versus optimism and then they. I Think like create this confusion that you know the difference between the distance between Ethereum and Arbitrum is like the same as the distance between Ethereum and you know, Monad or Binance Smart Chain or you know like Bitcoin or the US banking system. And like that's an outside Ethereum thing that I think we should like push to fix. But there's the inside Ethereum question of is for example the core dev process like taking L2 needs into consideration strongly enough. I feel like that's not for me to answer actually maybe that's a good question to everyone which is like what are things that the Ethereum core research and dev process could do to do a better job of taking L2 needs into account.
00:31:18.755 - 00:31:28.415, Speaker H: So one thing I will mention first, thank you for the 4844 in blobs. This helped a lot. This was like the biggest gift we have gotten there. So thank you.
00:31:34.275 - 00:31:55.265, Speaker D: One thing I can add is food and sharding shipped like earlier so that. Yeah, so I think like the now we're seeing the blobs is at some level which it will increase the price very soon. Like the. With more rough spin up now seems like we are like urging like some like a relatively more urging back to having the full tank shredding.
00:31:56.445 - 00:32:41.455, Speaker E: Yeah, that's finality. That's finality is quite important. I think it's important for basically the layer one to continue to go ahead. I mean we need enhancements in the EVM around for example cryptography. There's a lot of things that have been discussed forever that should be happening I believe because that's how you create differences. If EVM does not evolve then basically you need to add features in your own execution layer and then everybody adds different feature and then it's a mess to reconcile. So I think where the EF can help a lot is really into pushing the EVM for the execution and the fast finality for the consensus part.
00:32:41.915 - 00:33:43.425, Speaker G: So there's some technical things as well as cultural things that this makes me think of. On a technical side, you know, SSZ receipts would be super helpful. That allow us to delete a lot of lines of code in our proof. Then also faster block times. Faster block times is always useful for finalizing, you know, the data that's published to L1 more quickly. On the cultural side it would be really nice if there was more of a customer and provider sort of relationship between L1 and L2. We found that you know, when we make suggestions on how to modularize Gethsemane for example, the Geth team wants to be credibly neutral and not necessarily make abstractions that allow us to more easily maintain our fork.
00:33:43.425 - 00:34:13.115, Speaker G: Whereas there's other clients that focus more directly on all L1s and L2s as their customers. And their goal is to make it as easy as possible to integrate. And if we were able to reduce the amount of time that all L2 teams needed to spend rebasing on top of Geth, we would be able to focus more on getting to stage two more quickly.
00:34:15.135 - 00:34:27.704, Speaker C: One question, just probably to be helpful to the room, why not give up on Geth and instead build on top of say, netherminds or Wrath or some other team? And that's already more like customer usury toward you guys.
00:34:28.244 - 00:34:56.794, Speaker G: Yeah, that's a great question. It's already starting to happen. I think that, you know, everyone loves to say Rust is the future. You know, I think Go is great. I think that nethermind is also great. I think all the clients are great. I think that it's just still so early and as the L2 teams mature, they're able to take on more scope and own more code bases.
00:34:56.794 - 00:35:11.354, Speaker G: It's this trade off between getting to stage one, getting to stage two, just fighting for survival versus taking on a full multi client approach.
00:35:13.534 - 00:36:02.137, Speaker E: There's a huge cost, however, in five parking and having your own version, which is the risk of having an insider doing modifications to the code. It's deployed everywhere and then the fraud proof are not detected because everybody's running the same version. There's as well a huge risk in terms of having a single team maintaining a very important piece of software. So the fact on the layer one that we have a guest client in Golang, another one in Java, another one in basically every languages, including Nim, for example, for status. I think it adds a lot of value in terms of security and yes, we can be faster by doing force, by doing changes, but we're as well much less secure. So being a little bit slower, I think much more secure. I think it's quite important.
00:36:02.281 - 00:36:58.435, Speaker A: I think all these specific asks and specific questions are important and let me plus one those. But I also want to get a little bit meta and talk about the governance challenge of how to ensure that there is a really robust conversation between the L1 core developers and the L2 teams. Our team includes core developers from Arbitrum and from Prism, one of the leading L1 consensus clients. And we found it incredibly valuable to have those conversations between those two teams to really understand deeply the implications of L1 choices for L2 and L2 choices for L1. So I would love to see this sort of model of conversation be exported across the whole Ethereum world. How to do that? Not so easy, I think in the very sort of large and high stakes Ethereum governance process. But I think a really important goal.
00:36:59.415 - 00:37:30.645, Speaker H: I think the cultural challenge is the one that you mentioned, Marco, is quite tricky because you ask what we as L2 want to get from L1. But the general perception I see is that if you're like an L1 developer, you see these L2s just asking and grabbing and not giving too much back. So the important thing is also for us to flip this and be like, okay, what L2s can do to help L1. And it's not only technical things, it's also cultural thing, it's also us showing that we're actually built on top of Ethereum, which sometimes we forget.
00:37:31.575 - 00:37:39.795, Speaker A: And some of the things that L1 might ask themselves, do we want to do this? That are difficult to do, we might be able to say actually we don't need that so much.
00:37:42.055 - 00:38:05.765, Speaker I: Yeah, not much to add, a lot of important things already said. But yeah, I guess for us personally it's kind of like fast block times and kind of like the cheaper data availability that would be like a big win for us I guess like in general also kind of like. Yeah, to work towards this kind of like unified chain. Like all the work being done on like the formal auditing for like zqvms and kind of like this enshrined ZQVM would be like great to have.
00:38:07.505 - 00:39:13.135, Speaker F: I mean the only thing that I'll add is I think there's an interesting discussion to be had around like again I'll bring in like the economics here, which is a reality. Like we look at things like if I look at things from like a polygon perspective, we've spent enormous amounts of money on ZK technology that benefits. Eventually every L2 actually is going to benefit from that. And I think there's a question to be had is like, where is that relationship on where like an L, like I think it's an odd thing to say L2s should push a certain technology that ultimately will end up benefiting everyone, but they should incur that cost holistically on their own. And don't get me wrong, there's others doing things. I'm not saying otherwise, but it creates more economic distortion again when that actually happens. And so the question becomes like, at what point in time is it that when we know a technology is headed in a certain direction, that it's actually something that we all should be funding collectively.
00:39:13.135 - 00:39:21.905, Speaker F: I still think, actually there's no thinking. We know there's a lot of work to be done on ZK Tech. Why aren't we funding that collectively? I actually think we should be.
00:39:25.245 - 00:40:19.155, Speaker E: There's one dimension of this which I do believe that in the future it will be very important to have different provers to validate and update. Roll up this famous multiprover thing, I do believe. And when we will have four different ZKEVM will be able to move this to the layer one and to prove a state of the layer one with the tech developed by the L2. I totally agree that from a financial point of view there's a huge issue because all this will be available for everybody for free. And so, yeah, what's the incentivization to do this? I do believe there's one however, which is we make the ecosystem much bigger by doing this. So even if our partner might be small, might be a little bit unclear, might be a little bit shaky, I still think globally we will be much bigger, much better in this situation than just trying to build a small island somewhere.
00:40:19.315 - 00:40:19.563, Speaker C: Yeah.
00:40:19.579 - 00:40:28.251, Speaker F: And I would never debate like we should pull resources around one effort that would be like a huge mistake. But pooling resources around like mixed efforts would be a very good idea.
00:40:28.403 - 00:40:54.669, Speaker E: Yeah, there are some stuff that actually the EF is doing already, which is funding the formal verification. But formal verification is highly risky, it's highly difficult. And anyway, it's interesting if it's done by driven by an external team. I mean we're ready to contribute and we're doing it. But doing your own thing and doing the verification of it is always strange. So that's an easy way where the term foundation is already doing this, but can go very far. And I think it's very expensive.
00:40:54.669 - 00:40:57.025, Speaker E: So it's useful if they do it too, if they finance it too.
00:40:57.895 - 00:41:22.595, Speaker H: And yes, again, you have a very good point about reality, right? Financial reality of we're all working on open source code, which means our mode is one PR submission away. Right. So it's very tricky to figure out how to finance this while still maintaining a little bit of benefits and competition. So yeah, it's not easy, but it's crypto, so financial things are crazy. Anyway.
00:41:24.785 - 00:41:44.805, Speaker E: Open source is great, but I mean if a team goes away, it won't go anywhere. So I think we should understand that the value of a team is quite important to. It will evolve, it will have to be maintained. So it's not like oh yes, everything is going to be stolen by anyone tomorrow morning. We're actually in much more comfortable situation than this, I believe.
00:41:46.505 - 00:42:26.479, Speaker F: I mean I will bring up a maybe controversial point but like I think there should be alignment on the open source nature of what we develop. I think that's literally the lowest hanging fruit to all L2s working together. And working with Ethereum is everything should be open source because the moment that's true now we all to some degree are working together regardless of any competition. I don't know that we'd ever reach agreement here that people want to, but my perspective is like we should have a lot of social pressure on things being open source across the board amongst L2s.
00:42:26.567 - 00:42:29.955, Speaker E: Stupid question. Who is not fully open source in this room?
00:42:31.415 - 00:42:36.075, Speaker A: Arbitrum has a revenue share license. You can do what you want if you share revenue.
00:42:39.015 - 00:42:46.955, Speaker F: Sorry Ed, I didn't realize you were the only one. I did not mean to target you. I actually did. I actually did not know that he was the only one with the PSL license. Sorry.
00:42:49.015 - 00:43:06.755, Speaker B: So last question I think before we turn it over to audience questions. The one group that we don't have up here today is wallets. Going forward, how do we best bring wallets into this interop effort? Because obviously a critical component here.
00:43:07.615 - 00:43:09.875, Speaker C: Who here in the room is a wallet developer?
00:43:10.665 - 00:43:11.681, Speaker A: Quite a few.
00:43:11.833 - 00:43:24.565, Speaker C: Okay, cool. Maybe we'll ask you guys some questions in the next 40 minutes too. Actually, do I want to do this right now? Okay, so let's do this right now.
00:43:25.625 - 00:43:28.313, Speaker A: Let's send us down and bring them up.
00:43:28.449 - 00:43:51.745, Speaker C: Yeah, well it's. Yeah, come on, you know. Yeah, come on, get up to the front. Jeju and I see you. Yeah, just like sit over here. Anyone else? Well, I mean maybe we'll start off by asking you guys the same question which is what do wallets want out of the Ethereum L1 core dev process?
00:43:54.405 - 00:44:36.169, Speaker D: I think one of the biggest problem is the cross L2 thing. For example, we all know smart wallet is the future of Ethereum because of its it will be quantum safe. So for users they will need to deploy different smart wallets on different chains. And it's quite annoying. And especially to keep the same wallet address the same across different chain. And currently we still don't have a shared agreement on how the chain specific address will be. And also for user to recover or change a key across all their roll ups is very, very difficult.
00:44:36.169 - 00:44:47.685, Speaker D: They have to do it on different chain specifically and set up like Social recovery guardians specifically. So it create a huge fragmentation on the account level. Yeah.
00:44:48.625 - 00:45:25.977, Speaker E: So I'm not sure that we will have to do this actually in a perfect world, if we can put the state of one roll up into the others, then you will be able to send a transaction to a roll up you have never used saying actually I am this user on this other roll up and that's how you can verify your signature. So this is clearly a little bit richer. It depends mostly on your capacity to update the state to plug the state of every roll up into every other roll up. But I do believe that it should be possible to do this type of stuff and I do agree that if we don't it's going to be incredibly messy. But I do believe there are technical solutions to this type of problems.
00:45:26.081 - 00:45:42.137, Speaker C: I mean I'd argue chain specific addresses have use cases other than smart wallets. Right. Like users do wants to specify that they want to receive on a particular L2 or on L1 instead of somewhere else maybe Any other wallet developers here?
00:45:42.281 - 00:46:04.735, Speaker J: Yeah, I'd love to take it. Eric from Fireblocks so I think first of all an interesting maybe like we're in the truth kind of saying out loud things. So we work very closely with pretty much every L2 here. They're all partners. We work with them all the time. We don't really work very closely with Ethereum. That's a different distinction between the two.
00:46:04.735 - 00:46:26.131, Speaker J: Probably relates to setups in the world of Ethereum being earlier and more established before. But I think that's interesting and that also goes to the governance process. We been trying to be more participating but it's definitely. It's not an easy process to get to be more participating especially like and just for the people in the room less familiar as an NPC wallet.
00:46:26.163 - 00:46:26.307, Speaker E: Right.
00:46:26.331 - 00:46:45.015, Speaker J: We're not a smart contract wallet, which everybody wants to talk about whether an NPC wallet, that's obviously just part of what we do but that's kind of like. I think it's an interesting place in the space that's kind of, I don't know, been acknowledged differently. I have other questions as well afterwards but that's just kind of like a statement. If anybody wants to talk about it, I'm happy to.
00:46:46.115 - 00:46:50.735, Speaker C: Josh, are you in touch with him? Okay. Well you will.
00:46:51.835 - 00:47:21.887, Speaker J: Yeah. So I think two questions that are more specific to topics you discussed. So you talked about on chain configs. Right. And basically which basically would allow a situation where possibly we can have in time addition of the chain to the user process. So if we're talking about user stories, for example, Cosmos has like a different way of doing wallets than Ethereum. In Cosmos, the DAPP might let you know that this is like a chain.
00:47:21.887 - 00:47:59.151, Speaker J: They want to interact you with you as a wallet we're not familiar with earlier. So it creates a different process of interaction. I don't know how much of this has been discussed, like how user standards, like wallet standards, need to adapt to a place where you have a lot of chains that have on chain configs and you kind of assume that the user journey will read on chain config and interact with it and work differently. So I think that's an entire topic that needs to be talked about. I don't have any answers. Maybe there's better ways than the way Cosmos is doing this, but it's definitely something. We can end up building the configs, but not building the user interaction flow with those configs.
00:47:59.151 - 00:48:42.493, Speaker J: And then we basically added another half a year of wallet standards conversation to any roadmap you define. So I think that's maybe again a topic that needs to be addressed. And the other topic that I wanted to mention, and this kind of goes to all of the L2s and the L2 ecosystem, but actually also goes to the entire process of the roll calls, they are IPs. So any new chain, and again, the L2s here know this. Any new chain that comes up has a few things they need to take care of. And one of the things is integrating with infrastructure tools in the ecosystem, wallets being part of that. And that process can look very different depending on which tech decisions you made.
00:48:42.493 - 00:49:33.497, Speaker J: So if you're fully EVM compatible, that might be easier than if you're not fully EVM compatible. But EVM compatible is not a defined term. So a lot of people throw out EVM compatible. It goes well when you do marketing, but then you go to the wallets and they ask you, so which EAPs do you support, which EAPs you do not support? How does that look like? So did you do the GAS modifications? Right? Did you do all those different things? I think we need to talk more about what it means to be EVM compatible, have some broader definition to EVM compatibility. Because now Ithaca is going to be supporting, going to be EVM compatible with 7702 before Ethereum. Is is that EVM compatible or not? And they're going to have 7712 before Ethereum. Is DAT EVM compatible or not? Some chains already have 7712.
00:49:33.497 - 00:49:50.165, Speaker J: So I think that entire conversation needs to be much more robust. We need more terms than just EVM compatible and we need to understand how we work with this because again, there's going to be some new chains coming up and they'll stumble into the same problems and it's going to slow them down. Thank you.
00:49:52.955 - 00:50:09.907, Speaker A: All right, we might go for some question from the public, so I'm going to throw this cube. The Ethereum foundation will not be held liable if someone get injured. There's one over there.
00:50:10.091 - 00:50:10.459, Speaker I: Who?
00:50:10.507 - 00:50:11.095, Speaker A: Where?
00:50:12.115 - 00:50:14.131, Speaker F: Oh, okay.
00:50:14.163 - 00:51:11.095, Speaker A: Go first, go first. Okay. Just to pick up on the wallet conversation. So, Stefan, from One Balance, we've been working with a few different wallets and apps to help solve the fragmentation problem for them. And I think my main observation is that there's actually not much governance that's required to solve it. If anything, there's these things called kipes, so tan abstracted improvement proposals and those need just more attention and more conversations being had towards them. In particular, I think there's sort of a shift that's going to help a lot of the wallets to offer a better user experience, which is to move away from the current way that we do asset indexing towards actually communicating with apps the spendable balance of the user, as opposed to the exact amount of tokens that are within a storage slot on the chain that they're querying.
00:51:11.095 - 00:51:55.329, Speaker A: And those kinds of sort of coordinated changes to the JSON RPC APIs has been historically the sort of hardest thing to coordinate. Right. So you have this standard that was designed in 2014 for the JSON RPC API that's being used for communication between apps and wallets and just any change to that and upgrades to that have been incredibly slow to adopt. So more attention and focus on those things would be great. And then, yeah, hopefully with those things we'll be able to actually universally solve the fragmentation problem directly at the wallet level without actually having to do anything at the. At the chain level. All right, thanks.
00:51:55.329 - 00:52:06.545, Speaker A: If you can have a direct question for the audience, for the panelists, if you want to come to the roll call, I also do protocol support and coordination. Just reach out to me and here you go.
00:52:09.845 - 00:52:24.349, Speaker D: Test. Okay, so one thing I wanted to bring up as. Yeah, from the perspective of wallet providers or wallet developers, it's not just always about the highest level of security, but.
00:52:24.477 - 00:52:26.137, Speaker C: We care a lot about latency.
00:52:26.191 - 00:52:32.229, Speaker D: See, like how good is the user experience? And often we want to have a user experience that has like, is below.
00:52:32.277 - 00:52:35.705, Speaker C: This 2 second level latency barrier.
00:52:36.005 - 00:53:00.097, Speaker D: And so for some interactions we don't actually need like for example, GAS sponsorship, cross chain GAS sponsorship, we don't need the highest level of security for chain interoperability, but we are actually fine with some optimistic protocol potentially there and also would be happy potentially, potentially to rely on some standards and intermediate actors that.
00:53:00.161 - 00:53:01.857, Speaker C: Are willing to take a bit of.
00:53:02.041 - 00:53:05.697, Speaker D: Risk in terms of that optimistic functionality.
00:53:05.881 - 00:53:08.233, Speaker A: So yeah, the main thing I want.
00:53:08.249 - 00:53:31.215, Speaker D: To bring up is not always. We don't always need the highest level of security, something. Sometimes it's also worthwhile to have something in the middle where we have some optimistic interoperability, which is where maybe intermediate actors are taking some risk and which gives a better latency for the user experience. But that's not a question really.
00:53:32.235 - 00:54:01.851, Speaker A: Well, sometimes, yeah, I just want to agree with this. It's important to be able to think in these terms. Sometimes you need a party to take risk, but sometimes you just need a party to out of band where off chain verifies something that can be verified off chain but not on chain. Right. And so there's not even necessarily risk associated. Sometimes it's just a protocol that involves some on chain plus some off chain actor who bears the consequences if what they attest to turns out to be wrong.
00:54:02.003 - 00:54:33.811, Speaker C: Yeah. The really important flip side of this, I think, is that going back to the original goal, right, we want the Ethereum L1 plus L2 universe to have the same properties that we would demand had we done execution sharding. And one of those properties would be that doing things from one shard to another shard should not require like specifying and trusting a specific centralized actor. Right? And so it's fine if you have risk, but it's not fine if you have to like specify you're doing your sense through like xyz.infura.org? right, yeah, exactly.
00:54:33.843 - 00:55:13.493, Speaker E: I think it's very attempting to do a lot of optimization, saying for visual scales I can go with a lower level of security for this one, I can do a little bit of this. And then we say to the user, do your own research. I think it's a dangerous situation and we should spend quite a lot of time to be over time a little bit the same level of security, even if it's maybe too much in many cases, from a user point of view, you don't have to think about the specificities and to understand the variabilities of everything. So I think if we really want to be mainstream, we should say there is one level of security you don't have to write a white paper before knowing that should be sending a transaction, basically.
00:55:13.669 - 00:56:11.127, Speaker F: But you don't necessarily need to have one level of security for that. I do agree with this base level of security that we should be targeting. We want to avoid scam chains if we can do that. But beyond that, different chains should have different properties. We've accepted that we can have full roll ups and we can have validiums like we've accepted that these trade offs are okay and they make sense given the variety of things that we want to bring on chain. I think the one thing that, and so that brings up the question, should we expect users to understand to some minimal degree the risk or the security properties of a chain that they are using? And I think the answer is we want to remove the lowest level of security that is just so high risk that we should find a way to protect users from that. But beyond that, I think we should accept some amount of risk.
00:56:11.127 - 00:57:03.949, Speaker F: But what I think we should be targeting. And this is actually interesting because this goes to Ed's point about diversity and where we as L2s can almost be better off than L1s, which is if you, we want to be able to protect like cross chain transactions and like going from a chain that you trust to a chain like and executing a transaction on a chain that you don't trust. You want to be able to make sure that like you're not rugged by that chain. And like we need to ensure that that's actually the case but while living in a world where that chain can operate actually with much lower security, much lower cost than other chains. And so I think there's a world in which you can actually have like these different security properties while providing security guarantees with respect to like only the chain that somebody says, this is the one that I know that I'm actually on.
00:57:04.037 - 00:57:11.685, Speaker A: Yeah. I mean users need help with this. Right. There's a ton of chains, tons of applications, different counterparties, all with different levels of risk.
00:57:11.805 - 00:57:12.053, Speaker H: Yeah.
00:57:12.069 - 00:57:37.493, Speaker A: And it doesn't make sense to just expect the users to figure that out. Right. And this is a problem that's existed all across all of the layers of the Internet even before we were around. And when it works, what works is where the user is relying on some provider, like a wallet, for example, to just figure things out for them. Right. To set a standard. Maybe the user says high, medium, low security.
00:57:37.493 - 00:57:52.491, Speaker A: Maybe the wallet knows this is a low value transaction. But users ultimately rely on various providers to make decisions. You rely on your browser every day to try to keep you from going to attack to sites that will attack you.
00:57:52.643 - 00:57:52.907, Speaker F: Right.
00:57:52.931 - 00:58:01.947, Speaker A: And we don't think about that because it's built into the user experience, that level of safety. And I think we need to. Ultimately that needs to happen here. And wallets will play a big role in that.
00:58:02.051 - 00:58:26.663, Speaker E: I think it's a little bit too easy to push it to wallets and as well, because wallets will have a strong incentivization or some pressure to integrate with as many options as possible because users will be saying, oh, I don't want to use this wallet because it doesn't have this app chain that was popped up yesterday. So it's. I mean, it's good for us. Yes. But for the wallets, it's a little bit complicated, I believe, and ultimately it's bad for the user.
00:58:26.759 - 00:59:06.575, Speaker C: Yeah. I want to maybe post a question. Jejun, since you're in the front, you get this one again. So imagine a world where we standardize not just chain specific addresses, but also chain specific payment requests. So the idea that you have an app that can basically demand like, hey, I want one eth on this chain and adding chains is permissionless. So case one, you have an app which demands that you deposit one eth onto Arbitrum. Case two, you have an app that demands that you deposit one eth onto Tron with a config where there's a bridge between Tron and Ethereum that is a fully trusted bridge with the key controlled by Justin Sun.
00:59:06.575 - 00:59:17.135, Speaker C: In this future, how would you expect, like, how would you wish Soul Wallet to show Arbitrum and to run with the Justin sun bridge differently to users?
00:59:19.675 - 01:00:02.695, Speaker D: This is the mic. Okay, amazing. Well, I think it depends. Nowadays we use a lot of different bridges and a lot of time we just trust those bridges. So I think it really depends on the scenario or use case. If it's a low value transaction, maybe like lower than 1 ETH, then probably we could treat them the same things. The result is not that significant, but once they go above certain threshold, we could give users some warning or education to tell them that this is our suggestion.
01:00:03.675 - 01:00:11.695, Speaker C: What would the warning look like? Would you color the chain red instead of green? Would there be an extra click through?
01:00:12.715 - 01:00:21.195, Speaker D: Yes, it's like some risk warning like most of we do on the traditional web to fintech.
01:00:24.605 - 01:00:49.595, Speaker G: I think one way to think about it is maybe we should go and look at the user experience of say, using Stripe or using a traditional bank and aim for the user having to think at most the same amount. And ideally the user can think less Then we build a better user experience than the existing system. I do think that will be difficult, but I think that's a good goal.
01:00:50.655 - 01:01:02.195, Speaker A: I wouldn't want to go too far down the road though to emulating banks because as we may know, banks sometimes have a habit of not wanting to interact with completely reputable organizations.
01:01:03.095 - 01:01:41.415, Speaker D: I would say if we can look at the HTTP to HTTPs transition, if some like everyone is pushing for that standard and then also the cost to user experience is pretty negligible, then everyone will by default to using HTTPs. Not. I think if you are visiting a website that's not HTTPs, you're thinking okay, this website is not such good. So I think the more important thing is if we can work something like technical solutions to push that as a standard and then also with negligible impact to the user experience, that would be something that we can can have all of users can adopt by default.
01:01:41.795 - 01:01:56.651, Speaker H: But the question is what do you want to push as a standard? With more and more app chains launching, it would be almost impossible for you to say which app chain you trust or not trust. Right? The operators of many of these app chains, depending on the system might be able to do arbitrary things with your funds, right?
01:01:56.683 - 01:02:37.449, Speaker D: Yeah, I think a fun pool, you can have a certificate. Okay, this roll up is this app chain. First of all I think all of the stuff like we need to push up the standard or like you need to like by default choosing some minimum security features like when you launch a new chains and then like have some like L2 bit or some like third party like to say okay this chain has certain security features that. And then user will say like our interact with the chain with more trust. Like I don't need to worry too much. But now if you without this label then user was thinking okay twice about should I do a large amount of transaction on this chain? Should I deposit a lot of things on this chain? I think this could be one way we can push forward.
01:02:37.537 - 01:02:53.841, Speaker H: We are putting a lot on L2 beat and honestly they were doing an amazing job until now. So they are like this hidden hero in the background actually keeping us honest. But yeah, the question is how much they will be able to scale with potentially hundreds of appchain starting. That's the truth.
01:02:53.953 - 01:03:03.191, Speaker C: Speaking of collective funding, as we were talking 30 years ago, you know, would you guys be willing to put more funding toward either L2 beat itself or competitors? Yes.
01:03:03.263 - 01:03:19.503, Speaker F: Easy. Okay, done deal. Okay, we should all just agree to the amount you've probably all received something you all want to agree to 500k? Is that the amount? That's what they want. We should just agree to that. Everyone can give 500k, no problem. I think. I'm serious.
01:03:19.503 - 01:03:31.965, Speaker F: It would be good. No, nobody wants to. Okay. I mean we need like they're doing a great job and we should recognize that and we should fund them. Like I think it's really important.
01:03:32.505 - 01:04:03.231, Speaker E: I'm going to push again on this stuff around. You mentioned Validium for example and okay, it's an option. You can put vedatability of chain and that's good. But I really believe that we should try to make full data availability on Ethereum as the default. And it means saying to the Ethereum foundation, hey guys, it's your job to make sharding data sharding and full sharding happening as soon as possible. So we are not in a very painful situation when we have to explain to our users. Actually it will be good to split the security in two for very critical.
01:04:03.231 - 01:04:15.999, Speaker E: You will go Ethereum datability and then you will have something else forever. So I think it's why it's important to commit to a maximum, to maximum security because then we can ask the right thing to the, to the layer one.
01:04:16.127 - 01:04:26.039, Speaker H: But remember that this is making it a little bit harder for all the L3, L4s and future L5s. Right. Because suddenly all this data would have to travel all the way to Ethereum. Right?
01:04:26.207 - 01:04:28.495, Speaker A: Which in some cases it does. Yeah.
01:04:28.655 - 01:04:30.035, Speaker H: But now it would have to.
01:04:30.775 - 01:05:14.399, Speaker A: Well, so in when it comes to security, I think there are also things we can do in terms of, if not standards, at least best practices. Again, we can learn from what, you know, what's happened in Internet security world. There are some security properties that are easy to test. Does a site support HTTPs or not? Others not so much. But there's been this effort to develop best practices, sometimes written down and that's really useful. It provides a kind of checklist that people can apply and it makes it easier for the L2 beats of that world to do their job when it's sort of understood that of course you should do this list of things. It creates a kind of questionnaire that makes that easier.
01:05:14.399 - 01:05:22.115, Speaker A: And we might also get together and try to figure out what are best practices for operating an app chain.
01:05:25.575 - 01:05:31.235, Speaker B: So we're at about 20 minutes left. Do we want to save time for a few more questions here? Do we all feel good?
01:05:31.735 - 01:05:32.515, Speaker I: Cool.
01:05:35.465 - 01:05:59.809, Speaker J: First of all, plus one to Mark's comment on like agreeing to fund L2 beat, I think L2 beat's extremely important for this whole ecosystem. Secondly, I wanted to kind of ask a question to Vitalik. When you said earlier this year, like you're not going to talk about any roll up, that's not a stage one roll up after this year. I think that was very effective at getting everyone to be like, oh shit, we have to actually take this seriously and upgrade their systems. So you have a lot of ability to kind of get folks to align.
01:05:59.857 - 01:06:00.855, Speaker C: And we, we saw it earlier with.
01:06:00.895 - 01:06:15.551, Speaker J: Founder mode, Vitalik getting crushing and address or like change specific addresses and so on. Like just right now aligned. Are there any other things you think like we can use this time right now to say, like if we all got this thing done by like this time frame, that would be like something you think we need?
01:06:15.703 - 01:06:36.405, Speaker C: Actually, I mean we technically we haven't gone through chain specific addresses enough. I mean, do we have broad agreements around the idea that there should be an address that contains both the 20 byte identifier within the chain and the identifier of the chain? And that's a thing that you should be able to just put into a wallet and that would get processed as a send.
01:06:39.305 - 01:07:18.597, Speaker H: On the high level. Maybe the devil's in the details and the concrete detail that we're talking about is for example, would that thing be a human readable ENS or would it be some chain id? Would this thing be just done on the wallets or do we actually want to move it forward into some interrupt standard so that it's like embedded in there the problem. And by the way, we'll have a breakout session about some of these things later today where we're going to dive deeper. I think from my perspective, yes, we should have something, but this something requires a bunch of discussions and to make sure that we nail it, that we don't have to change it six months down the line.
01:07:18.741 - 01:07:20.853, Speaker C: Okay, do you agree that we should have something.
01:07:20.989 - 01:07:21.301, Speaker H: Yeah.
01:07:21.333 - 01:07:32.869, Speaker I: And also something that we can actually use in the EVM would also be great because if you actually want to have composability, then having to have the ability to specify an address that points to a different chain would also be very helpful.
01:07:32.957 - 01:07:41.065, Speaker C: Okay, so we want both human readable chain identifiers and we also want a standard for in EVM chain identifiers.
01:07:41.645 - 01:07:42.621, Speaker I: I would think so, yeah.
01:07:42.653 - 01:07:43.093, Speaker C: Okay.
01:07:43.189 - 01:07:48.799, Speaker A: Yep. Agree this is a useful thing to do. We want to make sure that you can also name L3s.
01:07:48.927 - 01:07:49.595, Speaker C: Agree.
01:07:50.255 - 01:08:16.835, Speaker G: Yeah. Definitely a big fan of this. I think in the most simple form the Safe app already supports this and that has been super useful. For me, when interacting with safes there's definitely more complicated ways to do it, but I'm in favor of just doing something simple. Safe is already doing something. We could adopt that and then we could continue to iterate on the design.
01:08:18.135 - 01:08:19.315, Speaker E: Yes. Okay.
01:08:19.615 - 01:08:20.031, Speaker C: Yeah.
01:08:20.063 - 01:08:20.635, Speaker F: Agree.
01:08:21.295 - 01:08:55.390, Speaker D: Yeah. I think in general it's a good idea. There's some more nuanced questions to ask about. For example, where is that trust list place you can register all of the chain IDs which you can put it otherwise you can think of people have some scammy things that you're trying to game the user users to do that. And then the second question is probably more tricky is like if there's non EVM compatible roll offs if the chain derivation like the address duration is different, how would they deal with that? I think this is some questions we may need to continue to discuss on that.
01:08:55.502 - 01:09:05.145, Speaker H: And this would be a great UX feature because users will finally stop getting this warning of Please make sure you select the right chain and it's all on you and then your funds are locked forever.
01:09:05.805 - 01:09:19.749, Speaker C: Okay. Would you be okay with if this was the decision? ERCA 3770 as is but you replace the current prefix which is de facto off chain registry with some kind of ENS based on chain thing.
01:09:19.877 - 01:09:20.949, Speaker G: I think that would be great.
01:09:21.037 - 01:09:21.705, Speaker C: Okay.
01:09:22.725 - 01:09:47.894, Speaker G: And I remember talking to the Zksync team. They even they were thinking of it in terms of a URL. And I think that this could be a powerful feature because it could be kind of similar to like the Blink product that Solana has where you can just encode a call or like a transaction directly in a URL and then you can just stick that hyperlink in a website and click it and then start interacting with an app.
01:09:52.634 - 01:10:02.995, Speaker C: Okay, so that. So that sounds like everyone agrees on the principle and everyone agrees on the need to have some more breakouts to figure out the optimal version.
01:10:03.655 - 01:10:05.719, Speaker H: Wow. We're going through EIPS really quickly.
01:10:05.807 - 01:10:06.675, Speaker C: Yeah. Yeah.
01:10:07.415 - 01:10:08.679, Speaker A: Got 20 minutes left.
01:10:08.807 - 01:10:19.967, Speaker C: Technically they're ERC is and I think some of them can't decide if their ERC is or RIP is. But that's fine. But still, that's good. All right, I want to make sure.
01:10:19.991 - 01:10:21.175, Speaker G: We get some questions in the back.
01:10:21.215 - 01:10:21.727, Speaker D: So if you.
01:10:21.791 - 01:10:23.341, Speaker G: If anyone has any questions, please rate.
01:10:23.363 - 01:10:26.137, Speaker D: Raise your hand and we'll throw this over one.
01:10:26.161 - 01:10:27.153, Speaker A: Look over here.
01:10:27.329 - 01:10:28.445, Speaker H: Go ahead, sir.
01:10:28.745 - 01:10:29.225, Speaker D: Sure.
01:10:29.305 - 01:10:33.245, Speaker A: Maybe to Harken back to the scam.
01:10:35.465 - 01:10:38.793, Speaker C: Harken back to the scam chain Scam app problem.
01:10:38.969 - 01:10:40.473, Speaker A: I definitely agree that it's Maybe too.
01:10:40.489 - 01:10:44.393, Speaker C: Much to put on the individual wallets. And it may be a little bit.
01:10:44.409 - 01:10:46.177, Speaker E: Too difficult for something like L2 beats.
01:10:46.241 - 01:10:48.689, Speaker A: To scale to all the different, you.
01:10:48.697 - 01:11:33.755, Speaker C: Know, possibilities in real time. I wonder if there isn't room for standardizing some sort of way to aggregate prediction markets to solve this problem. Interesting. I mean I guess my instinct is that's like out of scope for this like this style of low level technical discussion. But it's also a really cool thing that should exist and like when wallets figure out start showing users like some kind of warning based on reputation metrics. If one exists, that's good, you know, you should point to it. Any wallet provider would be willing to use a prediction market as a source of information about whether the chain is like green or yellow or red.
01:11:34.375 - 01:11:38.007, Speaker A: I see Lucas from safe. What is it that you're predicting in this.
01:11:38.191 - 01:11:55.919, Speaker C: Yeah, thing you're predicting. I mean. Okay, so my definition of a layer 2 being safe is if you have an asset that is inside of an L2 then you as a user can convert that into assets on the underlying L1.
01:11:56.087 - 01:12:00.207, Speaker A: So you'd predict whether the chain can pass some test like this.
01:12:00.311 - 01:12:04.527, Speaker C: Yes. You predict whether or not an incident takes place that violates this rule.
01:12:04.631 - 01:12:05.395, Speaker A: Got it.
01:12:10.225 - 01:12:16.929, Speaker E: Hi, my name is Nathan from Stockware. A quick question about non EVM L2s in general.
01:12:17.057 - 01:12:18.585, Speaker G: Just how do you see them as.
01:12:18.625 - 01:12:21.625, Speaker E: Part of this interop effort in general.
01:12:21.665 - 01:12:27.145, Speaker G: And how much input or collaboration you expect? I think I'm speaking on my behalf.
01:12:27.185 - 01:12:28.657, Speaker J: We would love to take part in.
01:12:28.681 - 01:12:37.865, Speaker G: This and make it more flexible and more direct ecosystem but it's non trivial at all when all the discussion assumes at some point some EVMs.
01:12:38.645 - 01:12:59.355, Speaker C: Yeah, good question. Would Starknet be willing to support a standard that does cross chain messaging and support that standard even while understanding that like the thing sending and receiving messages is not going to be any VM contract?
01:13:02.135 - 01:13:12.271, Speaker G: I think the main question there would be what kind of security assumptions it would take. So it would be just a ZK question. I don't think it would be stocknet Cairo stack question.
01:13:12.383 - 01:13:45.365, Speaker C: Right. I think in this case the. I mean the way that this would be practically implemented right. Is a cross chain send is basically something happens on one L2 and then on you make a Merkle proof from L1 state to that L2 and then you take that Merkle proof or you take a proof of it and then push it into the destination L2 and it gets verified and the security assumption is basically like whatever, like whether or not you trust the source L2.
01:13:46.345 - 01:13:54.137, Speaker G: Yeah, it's a bit of details, but the finality of some of the L2 is not like, I know that this is the current state is being propagated.
01:13:54.201 - 01:13:55.713, Speaker H: On this L2, but it's not final.
01:13:55.769 - 01:13:56.937, Speaker G: Until it reached L1.
01:13:57.001 - 01:14:12.245, Speaker C: Okay, so in this case I'm, let's say, I'm assuming, let's say we're talking about the most conservative version of cross chain messaging. So this is like the thing that you would use to like say make NFTs that can be moved between chains. And so like if it takes a seven day delay, that's fine.
01:14:13.105 - 01:14:13.473, Speaker G: Yeah.
01:14:13.489 - 01:14:15.545, Speaker E: So I'm sure we'll be all for it.
01:14:15.665 - 01:14:16.201, Speaker G: Okay.
01:14:16.313 - 01:14:43.745, Speaker C: Yeah, I mean, I think personally I, like, I strongly endorse the principle that L2s and L, you know, L3 is L integers and we can go into like higher like l or mega cardinalities if we want, but should be able to support interoperability standards that do not require EVM compatibility and at the same time be non evm.
01:14:44.605 - 01:14:45.425, Speaker H: Thank you.
01:14:49.205 - 01:15:02.621, Speaker D: Hey, do you hear me? Hey guys, Hubert from L2BIT here. So first of all, thank you for all of the nice words out there and I just wanted to let know everybody that I have a demo with.
01:15:02.653 - 01:15:04.685, Speaker E: Me called L2BIT INSIGHT.
01:15:04.845 - 01:15:12.927, Speaker D: And basically we already thought about presenting the risks of interoperability to the users.
01:15:13.031 - 01:15:16.875, Speaker E: And if anybody wants I can show it to them.
01:15:17.375 - 01:15:19.567, Speaker D: And we are thinking about making the.
01:15:19.591 - 01:15:25.391, Speaker E: API public so you can integrate it either to your wallet or anything else.
01:15:25.543 - 01:15:26.839, Speaker D: And I just want to make sure.
01:15:26.887 - 01:15:29.135, Speaker E: That this risks topic is not just.
01:15:29.215 - 01:15:37.463, Speaker D: Thrown again on the wallet providers. Because when I talk with a lot of people during DEF con, the guys from wallets are telling me that oh.
01:15:37.559 - 01:15:40.407, Speaker E: The guys from the chain should take care of their east.
01:15:40.431 - 01:15:42.087, Speaker D: The guys from chain tell me that.
01:15:42.111 - 01:15:44.503, Speaker E: The guys from interoperability protocol should take.
01:15:44.519 - 01:15:46.807, Speaker D: Care of that and the last ones.
01:15:46.831 - 01:15:48.815, Speaker E: Are saying that the other two should do it.
01:15:48.855 - 01:15:57.559, Speaker D: So I just want to also like during this forum make sure that, you know, we'll tackle that problem and agree how it should be, you know, how we should proceed.
01:15:57.607 - 01:15:58.195, Speaker F: Right.
01:15:58.865 - 01:16:00.685, Speaker D: About that concrete topic.
01:16:01.185 - 01:16:36.895, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean we can look at how this works on, in the, in the web. In the web 2 there the browsers present to the user these warnings, but the browsers are not the ones deciding on the risk or compiling lists of the risky sites. There is a kind of L2 beat for that which actually provides a feed of, of sort of ratings to the browsers which they then do with what they will. It's really important to have that body which is able to in a neutral, incredible way apply the criteria.
01:16:39.155 - 01:16:42.295, Speaker J: Hello. Shahar from Metal Labs. You can see.
01:16:43.915 - 01:16:44.531, Speaker D: Yeah.
01:16:44.643 - 01:16:54.317, Speaker J: Hey guys, Love the panel. Quick question, Vitalik. There's a lot of would you do this and yes and would you do that and maybe and let's do a workshop.
01:16:54.501 - 01:16:58.213, Speaker E: What's the ideal situation moving forward as.
01:16:58.229 - 01:17:02.345, Speaker J: Far as you can see how we collaborate and how we actually make it happen?
01:17:04.365 - 01:17:56.555, Speaker C: I think it would be good if for each of the things that people have said, either yes or yes on the principle, but we need to work on it, there's an active group and that group should include contributors from I think both the L2 side and the wallet side. And then very quickly move toward having an ERC or an RIP that actually gets published in a presentable form. And then we actually keep talking about it and at some point through one of these online forums actually formally adopt things as standards and also like, you know, like may turn these in person workshops into something that happens on a regular schedule in the same way that Ethereum client interrupts do follow up.
01:17:56.715 - 01:17:58.975, Speaker J: Would you be willing to make it happen?
01:18:00.155 - 01:18:12.205, Speaker C: Would I be willing to do what part? I mean I def participate in writing the ERC's app. So absolutely. Yeah. Come to future InterOps. Absolutely. Cool. Thank you.
01:18:12.205 - 01:19:04.181, Speaker C: I had a follow up question Hester of MetaMask Product Manager so please bear with me. I had a follow up question on the chain specific addresses because I heard ENS registration as kind of part of that conversation. Would we be able to ensure that it's still compatible with other chains? At least for MetaMask it's important that we have cross chain compatibility of address detection as well. Yeah. And so the way that actually there's a very pragmatic reason why even within Ethereum that question needs to be resolved anyway, which is that we have to support Testnets. Right. And the way that I think this has been thought about so far is basically you have dot eth and there is a kind of implementation which is much smaller where.eth
01:19:04.181 - 01:20:19.855, Speaker C: is understood to be kind of the like both refer to the Ethereum L1 and specifically ENS as a root registry. And like we would also have dot like dot Sepolia which would be a separate like root ENS registry that would live on the Sepolia chain and in principle like Binance Smart chain and other groups and whoever else would be able to spin up one of their own. So this is like one natural option for how that can be extended and then if they don't have that registry, then like in principle there's like an option to have a, like a, like throw a chain ID in there instead as well. So I think like the standards are definitely being designed I think in such a way that like while this group takes only takes responsibility for making sure everything is compatible for Ethereum, but it still like leaves space for other ecosystems to fit in and like in a very parallel standard. Got it, thank you. I have one unrelated question. Light clients, what would be the minimal that needs to get synced? Because we would want that to work on mobile without draining a battery or data.
01:20:19.855 - 01:21:11.111, Speaker C: Have you actually I'm curious, has Metamask looked at integrating Helios, I mean even for the L1? Not to my knowledge. Doesn't mean it hasn't happened. Okay, so Helios, right, be basically metal sync committee based light client. So you get real time view of the beacon chain and it's very light in terms of resources. I think think it's like a kilobyte of slot plus like 50 kilobytes to renew the committee or something like that. Right. And 4L2 is basically, I mean the way that you would read the state of an L2 is like using the L1 and using ideally an L2 config, you would be able to get the information needed to like ask some other network what is the state root of an L2 and then grab the chain.
01:21:11.111 - 01:21:34.515, Speaker C: And these are things that are currently being done also by the Helios team. Actually they have I think for optimism and for Arbitrum this. Right. Some like basically custom written code. And this is something that like you would be able to just add. And everything I understand about it is that it is very light on resources. Okay, awesome, thank you.
01:21:36.465 - 01:21:53.245, Speaker D: Hi, this is Francisco. We hear a lot about synchronous composability nowadays and I feel like in this panel it hasn't come up at all. So I just wanted to double check. Do you guys see that as something that's valuable that we should have or of a distraction maybe?
01:21:55.065 - 01:22:18.613, Speaker I: I think it's very valuable. It's something that we are working towards. So yeah, I think it's great to at least have the option to be able to do it, especially if you want to have liquidity on L1 and keep it there. So yeah, I think there's different opinions about it, like is scalable now or not, but I think having at least the opportunity to do it is a very valuable thing to do.
01:22:18.669 - 01:22:24.505, Speaker A: Yeah. It seems today more in the realm of research than in something where we'd want to write and lock in a standard.
01:22:25.205 - 01:23:25.655, Speaker G: I think that we can grow a ton with asynchronous composability. I think that the bottleneck to growth is with user experience and not with crazy protocol features. There might be a future where synchronous composability is really, really useful. And I think right now it's a distraction to think about it. I think that we need to, as a community, really focus on a simple goal that that can be communicated clearly and align everyone towards accomplishing that goal. What I think that goal should be is asynchronous composability and basically saying that it's possible to send an asset from one chain ecosystem to another chain ecosystem reliably within. Did you say, was it three slots? Yes.
01:23:27.035 - 01:24:05.389, Speaker D: I think the synchronized composability is something definitely good, like the. For the user experience, but like, whether it's technical feasible at the moment or like, what are the implications of having the synchronous composability is a question that we need to ask. For example, does it really require a centralized shared sequencer? Like, is that something that we want to have to making like the layer to become more centralized? Like, is that something like, we have to take that as like a prerequisite to have that synchronous composability or not? I think, yeah, we need to talk about more on the technical details about whether it's feasible or not.
01:24:05.517 - 01:24:18.005, Speaker H: And this will be also quite limiting for more diverse L2s. Right. Because some of them will be very hard to actually create a connection, especially if they have different VMs with different cancellation patterns, whatnot.
01:24:19.825 - 01:24:59.345, Speaker E: I think as well, targeting very simple things like just sending assets to another version is something absolutely possible. So it's without any impact. Asynchronous composability is more complicated because it breaks the fact that when you're executing a smart contract, nothing changes. So I do believe that if we do in synchronous scores between chains, there will be a lot of side effects and new possible hacks for smart contracts. And synchronous composability will be great in this regard, but it's a recharge project and it's going to take years, maybe more.
01:24:59.385 - 01:25:15.195, Speaker C: Yeah. And I think, like, my view was that for the short and medium term, synchronized composability is like really a domain for L2, like differentiation and competition. And I think that's like fully compatible with advancing all of the standards we talked about today.
01:25:15.575 - 01:25:16.231, Speaker I: Yeah.
01:25:16.343 - 01:25:21.835, Speaker C: So I have to run off to another meeting, unfortunately. But you guys are free to continue.
01:25:34.465 - 01:26:18.207, Speaker A: Or not. All right, I have a last question for you. So I'm coordinator and protocol support at the Ethereum foundation. So there has been a lot of coordination question today. You can guess my job is not easy every day. So I'm going to try to use that moment to get one more commitment from you guys. Could you commit? Would you commit to come to every roll call, every breakout that is interesting for you? At least send one person or if you don't send a message to explain why you couldn't make it this the roll call is every two weeks and the breakouts can be like every week or so for a short period of time.
01:26:18.391 - 01:26:21.933, Speaker D: Yeah, we can commit to that. Yeah, no problem.
01:26:22.079 - 01:26:24.445, Speaker E: I don't have a choice. I think so I commit.
01:26:25.865 - 01:26:34.565, Speaker G: Sure. Let's work towards making Roll Call be super product focused so that we're making sure we're solving problems for users.
01:26:36.865 - 01:26:46.205, Speaker A: Yes. Yeah, we can send someone also appeal to focus on issues that are common across our sector.
01:26:47.715 - 01:26:56.299, Speaker H: Only if you can say that this will be a productive time. It will be a productive roll call under this condition. Sure.
01:26:56.427 - 01:27:00.295, Speaker I: Yeah, yeah. We should make more an effort, that's for sure.
01:27:00.755 - 01:27:01.775, Speaker A: Thanks a lot.
01:27:03.435 - 01:27:07.695, Speaker B: Awesome. Thank you very much to our panels. I think we can end there.
01:27:15.965 - 01:27:38.827, Speaker D: So everyone, thank you for coming today. This was, I would say, opening ceremony. From now on we are going to move into a very short break. It's about 30 minutes. When you go out here you can go to your right and there's a whole chill out area over there where you can go. There's food and beverage, drinks, whatever you want. So it's going to be a short 30 minute break and then we're going to move into the breakout sessions.
01:27:38.827 - 01:27:51.955, Speaker D: There are maps around the area with schedule so you can scan the schedule and you can see which breakout area or breakout topic you want to attend. And again, thank you for coming. I hope this is a very productive day for all of you.
01:27:57.255 - 01:27:59.487, Speaker A: All right, let's go.
01:27:59.591 - 01:27:59.815, Speaker C: Thank you.
