00:00:01.050 - 00:00:04.080, Speaker A: Core and app team represent. Anyone here?
00:00:05.730 - 00:00:06.720, Speaker B: I'm here.
00:00:07.730 - 00:00:27.050, Speaker A: Hey, Evan. And I think Callum is here. Anyone from Strangelove? I think Alex might be here. Nope. Anyone? IBC team?
00:00:27.860 - 00:00:28.930, Speaker C: I'm here.
00:00:30.500 - 00:00:51.380, Speaker A: Welcome, binary builders. I think Marco is here. And informal. I'm not sure if Ethan is on the call, but we can kick it off anyways. All right, so let's go to the DA layer. Celestial node.
00:00:55.560 - 00:00:56.790, Speaker D: Lib is here.
00:00:58.200 - 00:01:39.496, Speaker A: I think Ramin is here and I don't know if anyone from Iger is here. All right, with that said, let's kick it off. I think updates from the DA working group. There is CIP 19, which we can cover in a bit, and update from the interface working group. That will be CIP 18. Updates from the ZK working group. There is a PR currently, but the call just ended a few minutes ago and they're going to update their CIP.
00:01:39.496 - 00:02:02.916, Speaker A: And that would probably be CIP 20, but it still needs to be updated. So with that said, let's go over CIP 17. Lemongrass hard fork. There's two pull requests to update it by Evan, but Evan, you want to go over the status of CIP 17, any kind of updates you're trying to do and stuff and reasons for all that.
00:02:03.098 - 00:03:13.528, Speaker B: Yeah, I opened up two PRs that are sort of just like something that we can point to if we want to discuss removing a CIP from CIP 17. So originally we were having five CIPs. So the coordinated upgrades, interchange accounts, incentivization middleware, price enforcement and the packet forward middleware. So there's been some things brought up for the packet forward middleware and the incentivization middleware. So there's this forum post I can post in the chat. We're sort of discussing about what are some general guidelines we can follow when we're pulling in some code, some other existing code into the code base or pulling in like a CIP like this. So specifically for the relayer incentivized middleware, it's not audited or it's not super well tested, like battle tested.
00:03:13.528 - 00:03:59.364, Speaker B: And because of that, it's like a difficult thing to sort of pull in, whereas like the packet forward middleware, there were some issues with it, but currently it's included on a lot of other big chains. So because of that, it's like something easier to pull in where something like ICA, it's audited and it's been thoroughly tested and there's a lot of user demand for it. So it's like a very easy checks all the boxes. Right. Something very easy to. So that's it. So I opened up the two PRs to remove the cips.
00:03:59.364 - 00:04:16.480, Speaker B: We don't have to remove both. We don't want to remove either. But it is like a good chance to discuss these things. So if anyone has any comments on those two specific things, that'd be helpful.
00:04:19.860 - 00:04:44.410, Speaker C: About. So what would make you feel more comfortable? Because, for example, there's only been one attempt at an incentivized transaction, but it was on a channel which didn't have the middleware enabled. But lots of chains have wide it up.
00:04:47.500 - 00:04:50.544, Speaker B: Oh, so it is already included in many chains?
00:04:50.692 - 00:04:52.190, Speaker C: Yeah, like 27.
00:04:53.920 - 00:05:07.824, Speaker B: Okay, so that changes a lot. So with overlayer incentivized middleware, the information I was going on was that we would be some of the first chains to include it. If that's not the case, then that's a completely different story.
00:05:08.022 - 00:05:08.770, Speaker C: No.
00:05:09.460 - 00:05:17.190, Speaker B: Okay, that's good information. Thank you. It's included. But are chains using it live?
00:05:19.240 - 00:05:35.690, Speaker C: I guess the issue was the whole channel upgradability and people wanting to use the transfer channels which were made before femaleware was launched. But yeah, that's the.
00:05:40.580 - 00:05:42.690, Speaker B: Rachel, did you have a comment for this?
00:05:43.060 - 00:06:05.690, Speaker E: Yeah, I guess. Sorry, I didn't want to speak over you. I was just going to ask. Yeah, I feel like I saw that a lot of small chains have adopted this, but I guess I'm wondering why, like the Cosmos Hub, or osmosis or DyDX or noble, like some of the larger chains, what's their resistance to adopting it?
00:06:06.220 - 00:06:43.110, Speaker C: The cosmos hub is going to put it in their V 16 release. I know for sure. I know osmosis plan to use it as well, but I think they just paused on upgrading at the moment because they wanted to prioritize product work. So yeah, I guess it's all kind of more in progress, but yeah. For instance, Kujira has it. It's pretty big chain. I know that injective are in the process or have it try and double check.
00:06:44.680 - 00:07:10.220, Speaker B: I think it's also worth noting that just because we removed the CIP from this meta CIP, the existing CIP, nothing changes. It can still be included in whatever upgrade. Even any CIP that would be removed from the meta CIP can obviously still be included and still be merged, still be finalized, and then can be included on the future CIP as well. A meta Cip.
00:07:11.440 - 00:07:42.490, Speaker E: Yeah, I kind of want to clarify one thing in that forum post. I was trying to convey that it would help if we have information on what chains have adopted a feature and also how long it's had to bake on that chain without any issues being discovered, because I feel like that feeds into the battle testing criteria is how long has it been around? How long has it been used? Yeah, maybe I could clarify that a bit more in that forum post.
00:07:50.920 - 00:08:39.030, Speaker F: I guess more concretely, we can reassess the risk of the relay incentivization and then sort of come back on the following call about this, because we were under the impression, basically, we were trying to make some analysis about what's the reward to risk. It's not just the inherent risk itself. It's like, what do we get out of it? What does Celestia get out of it? And so the fact that it hadn't been audited and we were under the impression that it wasn't actually used by many chains was like, okay, can we just wait for the next upgrade when it becomes more standard and sort of integrated in then. Now, if it is used by a lot of chains, there's been a lot of eyes on it. It's been battle tested. Then maybe that changes the arithmetic and we can reassess that and sort of in the following weeks. Get back.
00:08:41.160 - 00:08:45.400, Speaker C: Okay, cool. I can also drop a comment or something on the forum.
00:08:52.520 - 00:09:51.270, Speaker A: Okay, so it sounds like there's no rep consensus removing them into CIP 17. So, Evan, if you want us to still merge the two PRs to remove them from CIP 17, which is for the upcoming lemongrass hard work, we can do that. And if you want to link to the reasoning for the forum post within the other CIP. Forum posts, like for the two other CIps, why they're removed for the time being, I think that would also help clarify people async. Any other feedback? I'm not sure if one of the authors for the other CIP, I believe. I think one of them is by strange love. Is that the PFM one?
00:09:54.490 - 00:09:54.902, Speaker B: Yes.
00:09:54.956 - 00:10:24.590, Speaker A: We're here. CIP nine. So, Alex, I don't know if you caught all that, but CIP nine will be removed from the lemongrass hard fork for reasons stated earlier. The core debt can clarify. It doesn't mean that it's not going to be accepted at all in a future hard work, but it was just some concern about it, not battle tested. But yeah, I'll let Evan talk.
00:10:24.740 - 00:10:37.220, Speaker B: I mean, we can discuss both of these separately, and we can discuss them async, and we can gather more information and do some more evaluation before we make any decision. The decision is not made yet, to be clear.
00:10:38.230 - 00:10:38.930, Speaker A: Okay.
00:10:39.080 - 00:10:45.000, Speaker G: I'm just a little confused because we went through the whole process and then within finalized state for the past month now.
00:10:47.530 - 00:11:31.780, Speaker A: Yeah. So, Alex, even if it's final, anything final is more like the specification is final, like that you presented. The specs is final, but it doesn't necessarily mean because it's final that it's going to be added to a future hard fork right away because there's a lot of other moving parts there, like implementation testing and stuff. And if they're concerned about it being battle tested, that stuff could erupt. Consensus of the core depth to decide whether they want to include it in the current, upcoming hard work or maybe a future one once there's the criteria satisfied by the core devs. Right. So even if it's final, final means if the specification is final, not that there's a decision to add it to the upcoming hard work.
00:11:31.780 - 00:11:37.640, Speaker A: If you'd like to review the final status, it's also part of CIP one.
00:11:40.810 - 00:11:46.410, Speaker G: All right. I don't want to waste my time with that. What about CIP 14, Ica?
00:11:48.750 - 00:11:50.490, Speaker B: That's still being included?
00:11:51.550 - 00:11:52.822, Speaker G: That's going to still be included.
00:11:52.886 - 00:11:53.210, Speaker A: Okay.
00:11:53.280 - 00:11:54.726, Speaker B: In the lemongrass home fork?
00:11:54.758 - 00:11:56.442, Speaker A: Yeah. Okay.
00:11:56.576 - 00:11:58.990, Speaker G: And when is lemongrass slated?
00:12:00.130 - 00:12:15.570, Speaker B: We don't have a firm date yet. Audits should finish up, I believe in June. Correct, Ratul? Yes. Okay. Yeah. For ICA.
00:12:17.830 - 00:12:20.980, Speaker G: So sorry. When do you expect that it'll hit main net?
00:12:22.150 - 00:12:27.190, Speaker B: Presumably sometime after June. Sometime soon after June.
00:12:28.010 - 00:12:28.760, Speaker A: Okay.
00:12:29.770 - 00:12:33.000, Speaker B: Assuming that social consensus is reached, of course.
00:12:37.470 - 00:12:51.790, Speaker A: Cool. We'll go ahead and merge the PRs by the editor. We'll start merging the PR by Evan. If there's no more discussion point on CIP 17, I think we can move ahead with the rest of the agenda.
00:12:56.450 - 00:13:36.346, Speaker B: I just wanted to clarify that I think we're going to leave those open for discussion on the PRS themselves. Yeah, I think we should leave them open for discussion and post the evidence. We can have discussions on the forum post as well. Over. We were going through the lemongrass upgrade and we sort of, as part of our learning process, figured out that, oh, well, there's some of this code that we don't know how audited or how battle tested it is and the user demand for it. So because of those things, we wanted to have do our due diligence for those three things. So that's it.
00:13:36.346 - 00:13:51.550, Speaker B: We haven't done that yet. So I don't think we should merge the PRs until we do that. But along with merging these PRs, it should provide the information for why it was or wasn't included in the lemongrass hard fork.
00:13:53.750 - 00:14:13.240, Speaker A: Thank you. Yeah, that sounds good. Evan, one question I had is for the current CIP 14 and draft, I think, should we update the status to review if the authors are ready for it to be reviewed, or how do you guys feel about that?
00:14:14.250 - 00:14:22.620, Speaker C: I added in the test cases, and I think that PR got merged, so I think everything is there to be moved to review.
00:14:23.950 - 00:14:52.900, Speaker A: Okay, cool. So we'll update CIP 14 to be moved to review status. We'll give it a couple of weeks for review. If there's anything that doesn't come up by the next call, then we'll move it to last call. But Suzanne, I think the authors are best to update the status to review. So if you can make a PR at your own time, whenever you want to update it to review, and then we'll merge that.
00:14:53.370 - 00:14:56.360, Speaker C: Yeah, I'll do that. Thank you.
00:14:57.130 - 00:14:58.040, Speaker E: Of course.
00:14:59.290 - 00:15:11.180, Speaker A: Moving on. CIP 18 by Callum standardized gas and pricing estimation interface. Callum, you want to go over that?
00:15:13.390 - 00:16:18.320, Speaker F: Like, give a brief introduction about what it's about? Yeah, sure. So essentially, when you're trying to submit a transaction as a client, almost everything you have locally available to you, like the chain ID you have, your private keys, your account number, you can sort of increment the sequence number yourself. The only thing that you really require help with is estimating the gas and estimating the gas price. And so the idea is to allow for third party providers to provide that service for you. This is something that happens in the Ethereum ecosystem, where you have things that will estimate the gas, and then wallets use those gas estimations to help their users to work out how much gas is required to execute the transaction and what the gas price should be. And so basically, this is just introducing a new interface which will allow for these third party providers to exist, and that can be used both by celestial node, for example. So if you're a roll up user, you don't have to worry about gas estimations yourself.
00:16:18.320 - 00:16:51.130, Speaker F: And then also for wallets like Kepler. So at the moment, this is just the first draft of this, and happy to get feedback on whether they think, on whether people think there's any extra dimensions that need to be involved. One of the most important things, I guess, about this as an interface is just to have support from wallets like Kepler, and sort of also to have, on the other side, service providers or parties who could be able to do these services like estimating gas and the gas price to exist.
00:16:56.410 - 00:17:19.200, Speaker A: Yeah, this is really good feedback about wallet providers. We could probably draft a short list. I think primarily it's about coordinating with Kepler this guest into the final crack. What is the plan, by the way, for this CIPD guide? Plan to include it in Lemongrass hardcore or is that slated for something in the future?
00:17:21.970 - 00:18:05.150, Speaker F: It's not dependent on the consensus version itself or on the network version. This is all sort of like, you can see it's off chain services that is built around solicitor. So I assume that will come out afterwards and be rolled out slowly. The thing is, with these interfaces, there already exists usage. So for example, any consensus node can give you an estimate of the gas required by simulating the transaction and can also give you an estimate of the gas price, because we use a global minimum gas price. So as long as there's no congestion, that will be what the gas price is. So all of this will not be breaking, they'll be purely additive and we'll expect it to be rolled out whenever we sort of get input from some of the major users.
00:18:06.850 - 00:18:13.310, Speaker A: Sounds good. Anyone have any questions on it? Any feedback on CIP 18?
00:18:13.890 - 00:18:17.060, Speaker H: I have a question. Do you guys hear me?
00:18:17.670 - 00:18:18.420, Speaker F: Yeah.
00:18:19.670 - 00:18:38.870, Speaker H: Do you think this interface is forward compatible? If we ever choose to have like a multidimensional fee market where, let's say, execution, storage and blobs are priced differently?
00:18:44.910 - 00:19:15.700, Speaker F: I guess there's two aspects of it. One, if we're going for like a GRPC or protobuff based system, then additive changes are not for breaking. But I assume if you are going to break the consensus like the network itself, by having multi EIP 1559, then this will probably break clients downstream anyway.
00:19:19.850 - 00:20:02.390, Speaker H: I think because everything will be priced with Kia, the calculation can still happen on the server side. And it might be the case that if we have a controller, then it's time dependent. Basically like when you ask if you go the route of EIP 1559, but multidimensional fees, I feel should be fine. So let me rephrase the question. Do you think EIP 1559 would break this interface?
00:20:03.290 - 00:20:04.470, Speaker F: No, it wouldn't.
00:20:05.530 - 00:20:07.800, Speaker H: I think both are fine.
00:20:11.530 - 00:20:12.280, Speaker F: Cool.
00:20:16.180 - 00:20:17.410, Speaker H: Which is great.
00:20:17.860 - 00:20:20.770, Speaker F: Yeah, I do think the notion of compatibility is very important.
00:20:26.650 - 00:20:28.760, Speaker H: Yeah, I don't have any more questions. Thanks.
00:20:30.350 - 00:21:13.234, Speaker A: Cool. Anyone else had any feedback? Questions? Comments? All right, I guess then, Callum, you said, next step, you want to talk to more users and stuff about this new addition for the interfaces. So yeah, whenever you have it ready for review and updated, just update it to review status and for everyone to re review it. Cool. Now, CIP 19, I think. Wonderton, Glib, you talked about it last call, but I don't know if there's been any update or anything. I think there might be a comment by Ratul.
00:21:13.234 - 00:21:20.440, Speaker A: I don't know if been addressed or Ratul got back on the comment, but otherwise, yeah.
00:21:22.250 - 00:21:53.570, Speaker D: Ratul got back on a comment and he agreed with my statement. We don't need to go deeper into detail of that comment. It's not necessary. There was not many substantial changes to the spec since last time. There were a few though, and I think we can just proceed with that. And the older relative parties here already sort of gave their self commitment.
00:21:55.270 - 00:21:55.586, Speaker A: On.
00:21:55.608 - 00:22:00.870, Speaker D: This pack, and we can potentially consider moving it further in the status.
00:22:01.850 - 00:22:18.300, Speaker A: Okay, so I'd recommend making a PR glib to move it from draft to review. That will be the first step on timeline. What kind of timeline? On implementation and rolling it out are you guys looking at?
00:22:18.670 - 00:23:24.340, Speaker D: So this is what I'm working on right now. And there will be a proper doc that the real team will also be involved because there will be public facing things that we need to do. But the shirt story before launching this, we will give like two week notice that there will be this new Schwab protocol, and then we will ask the node operators to keep their old version and a new version run together for a month, and then after a month they will be able to cheer it down. And this is needed so that we can guarantee backwards compatibility with all protocol and allow a time buffer for all the clients to migrate from the old protocol to the new protocol. This is described in the backwards compatibility section in this CIP, by the way, and there will be a proper document with more details and that stuff with all the steps and dates that I will share soon.
00:23:25.910 - 00:24:02.350, Speaker A: Sounds good. Yeah, if you need any kind of support on the coordination part of that with the node operator is happy to help. Awesome. Thank you. Yeah, that sounds good to me. Okay, so yeah, the TLDR just updated to review, and we can talk async about any kind of rollout for this because this touches the data availability layer, not the consensus layer. It doesn't require hard work, but it does require node operators to run two binaries at the same time, just to ensure everyone has time to upgrade.
00:24:02.350 - 00:25:02.850, Speaker A: Okay, I don't think we have any more topics to cover. There might be a CIP in the next two weeks from the ZK working group, but that's about it. Are there any other topics to cover that we haven't covered from existing CIPs? Okay, I'll take that as a no. With that said, thank you everyone for coming to another core deck call with the celestial core deck call number seven. We'll send out information for Cordec call eight happening in two weeks and review the status of things moving forward. And I guess we'll have more information, Evan, about lemongrass hard fork by then about what's included, what's not. And, yeah, thank you, everyone, for coming, and we'll talk to you in two weeks.
00:25:02.850 - 00:25:06.692, Speaker A: Bye.
00:25:06.876 - 00:25:07.464, Speaker E: Thank you.
00:25:07.502 - 00:25:09.830, Speaker B: Bye bye. See you.
