00:00:06.560 - 00:00:22.910, Speaker A: Welcome to the Stargate finance community call, where we discuss proposals and ideas that will help shape and govern the Stargate protocol. Okay. A few things to go through here today and this week. Thanks, everybody, for coming in. Yeah. Okay. One of the first things is, yeah, it should be.
00:00:22.910 - 00:01:18.990, Speaker A: It's gonna be going live here in the next couple of days. Is the transfer of native gas, or when you transfer to, like, drop airdrop native gas to the destination chain. We do have for anybody that is in discord at the moment or if you want to check on it later, I've got a small screenshot here to share with, kind of like what that's going to look like and how that's going to work. But this should be live in the next couple of days where you'll be able to, as you transfer across. Right now, like we do, I think there's some dust that gets sent over, but for now or in the future, there's going to be the ability to have kind of three options when you're four, I guess. But, yeah, either you can choose to have no gas, get air dropped onto the other side. So this is taking some of your source gas and dropping it as native gas on the destination chain.
00:01:18.990 - 00:02:11.114, Speaker A: So you'll be able to choose a default amount, which is designed to be enough for an approval and a swap so that you could get more native gas if you wanted to or be able to get a different asset. There's a maximum amount, so we've kind of got, like, an upper threshold of just like, what's kind of a safe amount to be, you know, sending across with all this. And then there's the custom amount, so then you can choose, like, anywhere in between, you know, zero and the maximum amount. So I don't know this, to me, this is like a really cool thing because it's always been, like, a bit of a struggle to go somewhere else to, like, find the right native gas. I know there's some other places that are offering it with it and kind of combining it, but here it's like you're taking your own and using your own. It all gets linked in and connected into your own transaction. And so all that shows up from your.
00:02:11.114 - 00:02:25.162, Speaker A: Yeah, shows up, like, in your. Your transaction. So all that is going to be included in your. In your, like, trans. In your wallet in the transaction. All that gets lumped together. So, yeah, I don't know.
00:02:25.162 - 00:03:14.964, Speaker A: I'm pretty stoked about that. Yeah, it'll be able to, like, you'll be able to have, like, just native ETH in on Mainnet and be able to like, go everywhere right from Stargate. So, yeah, I don't know if anybody's got questions or comments on that, but, yeah, I'm pretty stoked personally. Yeah, and again, we do have the text questions from in discord on YouTube and Twitch. So, yeah, feel free to pop in there to bring in questions that way too. Yeah. So how you take a look into the, into the native gas there? Like I said, I dropped that into the text questions, any feedback, you know, feel free to reach out.
00:03:14.964 - 00:04:03.554, Speaker A: The next thing is the LZ scan. So we'll be able to creating like a scan that's able to like, look at all the transactions because right now you have to kind of jump between transaction or between, I guess, etherscan and like snow trace or, you know, FTM scan or poly scan. This way here, like, each one of these explorers, instead of having to jump between, will have like, layer zeros kind of scan that's able to, like, monitor or be able to, like, follow all of your transactions. And, yeah, I think that's, that's going to be really beneficial for a lot of people that are wondering, like, where, you know, how their transactions are doing, where they're going, and just like a lot more clarity around that. So that should be ready. As far as next week, is that kind of where we're at with it?
00:04:05.854 - 00:04:28.262, Speaker B: I think basically what always been by the end of this month. I think broadly, it's super helpful for individuals. Obviously, right now there is just none of this connects it. It's just a random hash on source chain. A random hash on destination. So you have to do a lot of guesswork to figure it out. So now chaining them together will be super, super helpful, but I think it's most helpful for all the applications we're integrating.
00:04:28.262 - 00:04:49.272, Speaker B: They want to be able to show this to their user. Here's where it is right now. Pending on source, confirmed on source. Like in flight or pending on destination? Confirmed on destination. I think having those statuses will make the entire process of integrating much, much, much easier. So, yeah, maybe it's next week. It's basically by the end of the month for sure.
00:04:49.328 - 00:05:02.184, Speaker A: Okay, perfect. Yeah, cool. So, yeah, that's going to be a big thing for integrations. Absolutely. Yeah. They'll be able to show you users where things are at. Yeah, cool.
00:05:02.184 - 00:05:33.712, Speaker A: All right. I don't know if anybody's got anything on that. Anything else and anybody that has questions or comments, feel free to come on up anytime and raise your hand. We'll get you up on stage or bring them in through the text. Questions? Okay, next up is just an update on the ETH asset integrations, or is the base asset integration. Yeah, I think that's coming along and. Yeah, where are we at with that? That's.
00:05:33.712 - 00:05:36.364, Speaker A: We're looking to get onto testnet soon with that.
00:05:41.504 - 00:05:42.224, Speaker B: Sorry, tingle.
00:05:42.264 - 00:05:48.376, Speaker A: Say that one more time, just for the ETH. The base pair or like for the are coming up.
00:05:48.400 - 00:06:26.524, Speaker B: We basically have to fix the front. And the front end was set in such a way that adding more and more assets is going to kind of change the way the front end interacts. It'll look more like, kind of like the Dexs do over time, especially if we ever expose to long tail of assets. But for now, basically, we need to get ETH added in the pools or we need to get the front end updated. My guess is, hopefully the dev, kind of the main dev for this has COVID right now, and I haven't heard from him for 36 hours. So hopefully he's alive. That's my co founder, Caleb.
00:06:26.524 - 00:06:44.304, Speaker B: I'm sure he's alive. Yeah. So my guess is, like, Monday ish or something like, basically need to get the pools, I need to set up the incentives. I think the announcement will go out and then. Yeah, and then basically the front end will be live. So hopefully by then.
00:06:44.464 - 00:06:53.754, Speaker A: All right, cool. Yeah, and hopefully. Yeah. Get better, get well soon, Caleb. Damn, that sucks. Yeah. Okay.
00:06:53.754 - 00:07:07.426, Speaker A: Yeah. Speaking of. Yeah, kind of some other things too here just yet, pre crime, and I know that's, like a thing everybody's been waiting for. And of course. Yeah. Having, like, Dev resources right now, that's.
00:07:07.610 - 00:07:34.670, Speaker B: I believe. I believe the shackles are coming off today. So basically, I know this been discussed before, but pre crime broadly means a bunch of hacks have happened because you have some messages going chain a to chain b. And the hacker did something tricky. This could be the axe and Ronin hack. This can be the poly network hack, etcetera. But the hacker basically tricked the contract and releasing money that it shouldn't have or tricked the source into kind of sending a message that it shouldn't have.
00:07:34.670 - 00:08:24.974, Speaker B: So precrime allows the application to set an invariant, which basically is something that needs to be true for the message to go through. So for Stargate, the very simple invariant is, like solvency, right? So if you're giving $10 million on the destination chain, you want the system to still maintain solvency. So what Precrime does is when it hits the relayer before the message gets forwarded, the relayer forks all local chains does the state transition and confirms that it's still solvent. So if you're giving 10 million there, did I actually get 10 million on the source? And if you didn't, if any of those invariants are broken, then you know it's a fraudulent message. And so before, basically, Stargate went live with composability, where everybody is able to wrap it. So these are all the applications we're integrating. Precrime was gonna be live, I believe.
00:08:24.974 - 00:08:49.483, Speaker B: Well, Precrime is live on Mainnet now. It's been running in the background. I think everybody has signed off that they are, you know, happy with the security state of things, and it's good to go, which means, hopefully today, that will come off, which will mean everybody will be able to compose Stargate fully on Mainnet. So that has not been happening yet, and that will be a big change once it does.
00:08:51.143 - 00:09:11.874, Speaker A: Amazing. All right. Yeah, everybody stay tuned for that. And it's great to hear that security being top priority here and want to make sure that there's been so many hacks and exploits that every extra bit of security we can have is going to be very, very helpful. So, cool. And I know a lot of people have been excited about that. Ray J.
00:09:11.874 - 00:09:24.918, Speaker A: Yes. Hopefully you're stoked about this. I think you might be sick as well right now. So shout out to Ray J. Hopefully you get better, too. All right, very cool. Very cool.
00:09:24.918 - 00:09:46.384, Speaker A: One other thing here, as far as integrations go, we do have the widget for dropping into. Yeah, the widget for. I'm just pasting this into the AMA text or. Yeah, the voice text channel. Yeah. So here's, like the integration. So places we'll be able to integrate.
00:09:46.384 - 00:10:08.794, Speaker A: Yeah, integrate omni chain transfer, like, in any app right now. So here is this widget. And this is going live right away, I think, or is almost live. So, yeah, this code will be. This is just, like, the simple way for this to happen. So lots going on on our end. Primo, I don't know if you can speak to this a little bit more.
00:10:09.894 - 00:10:27.286, Speaker B: Yeah, the widget is live. Widget is basically. Okay. So there's a couple ways you can integrate. Sushiswap integration is something that's more like, hey, in the sushi Ui, we want to do this whole swap. So the user has asset a on Ethereum, and they want to go to, like, asset b on polygon. That's fine.
00:10:27.286 - 00:10:50.674, Speaker B: Doing the sushi Ui, click send or click transfer, and, like, the whole swap is done. And so Stargate is done in the backend you swap on chain a bridge over Stargate and then swap on chain B, and that whole flow gets executed right in. That's great. Native integration. Like, that is amazing. Or like composed integration. But then there are other apps who basically say, hey, that sounds great, but that's going to take us much longer.
00:10:50.674 - 00:11:20.682, Speaker B: What we actually want kind of right away is just the ability to bring assets into the ecosystem. So this is easy way to have a widget where you just can have it directly on your site with like basically three lines of code. Just copy and paste this thing and boom, it's there. And that's where anybody can bridge Stargate in. So imagine you're like a big Dex on another chain or a big whatever on another chain, and you just want to make it easy for people to bridge from other chains to you. Now you can do it. You have the widget directly on your site.
00:11:20.682 - 00:11:46.154, Speaker B: Super easy to have bridging, nobody ever leaves your UI, etcetera. So that is what the widget is for. And you can see it. I'm not sure if I'm supposed to expose this link, but I'll say it anyways for people on the call because it looks pretty awesome, but it's just stargate finance widget and you can see exactly what that looks like. And. Yeah, again, super, super easy to use. Super easy to integrate.
00:11:46.154 - 00:11:47.914, Speaker B: Yep, that's it.
00:11:49.294 - 00:12:16.674, Speaker A: Yeah. Awesome. This is, again, just how easy this is. I mean, I'm not a, not a programmer, not a coder, but when I look at like the amount of lines of code, it looks like you're like kind of running a couple of, you know, packages like an NPM thing and a yarn thing and then like the few lines of code, this thing looks pretty, pretty straightforward and easy to put in. So. Yeah, that looks pretty sick. Okay.
00:12:16.674 - 00:12:39.854, Speaker A: Yeah, next up here. Yeah, I guess as we're talking about widgets and integration here, sushi integration, I think they are getting closer and closer. We did some user testing with them the other day and this looks really, really great. They're chugging right along and it's like the UI experience is pretty great.
00:12:40.594 - 00:12:43.694, Speaker C: Leak the screenshot. Let's take the screenshot.
00:12:46.224 - 00:13:13.404, Speaker A: I was told not to. I was told not to because it's, they're going to be updating some more stuff to make it even better. So out of respect for them, I won't do that. But, yeah, it's, it looks sweet. It's, it's going to be, yeah, they're, they're working on it diligently. So, yeah, but I don't know, Mackie, maybe you could say just like, I don't know, any kind of feedback you have from what you saw with the user testing around it.
00:13:15.434 - 00:13:55.184, Speaker C: Just like the UX is pretty easygoing and basically you don't have to think about, I would say, the switching chains or everything. It's just all integrated in one. It's very easy. Whenever you switch network on the other end, refresh the, the token list so you can just pick whatever token is native to, let's say, optimism and so on. So super good. I think they did a great job and they really kind of hold your end afterwards, like during the bridging process. They show you all the steps.
00:13:55.184 - 00:14:01.544, Speaker C: They did a wonderful job. Honestly, I didn't expect it to be so polished straight out of the gate.
00:14:04.004 - 00:14:24.876, Speaker A: Yeah, it was impressive to see how much it, where they were at with it and how polished was is a really good word with it. So, yeah, with a little more time, you know, with the last little bits that they're going to integrate. Very excited to see how that's all going to play out. But should be cool. Should be cool. Okay. Yeah.
00:14:24.876 - 00:14:57.364, Speaker A: I don't know if anybody's got questions on that. Feel free to reach out or, you know, if you've got, if you want anything, just let us know. And, yeah, next up is we'll talk about the proposals. So one right that we have live on snapshot right now, of course, is the op airdrop token distribution. Yeah. So, yeah, that one is live right now. And where are we at? So I think that was, it's going to be on till Friday.
00:14:57.364 - 00:16:11.272, Speaker A: Just loading up here right now. But yes, we had current results, snapshots taking a minute to load here today. But yeah, basically just how this is all going to, what this is going to look like here with the airdrop that was given to Stargate with the 1 million op tokens. And I think the main, main thing to point out here with this airdrop is it like, it needs to be things that are going to help like keep the optimism ecosystem alive rather than just like free handouts to people. So I think that was like the biggest, biggest thing here with like ve holders. I know that was a, you know, that was some comments on that, but like, that doesn't. I don't know that that was like the best way for, you know, optimisms, if optimism to look at that, seeing like, is this the best use of the op tokens? Whereas, like, you know, locking it into, you know, into like, you know, TvL on optimism you know, that's, I think, you know, was going to be a lot more of a, you know, a better use on from their perspective.
00:16:11.272 - 00:17:11.352, Speaker A: But yeah, currently this vote is at 1.1 million of 7.4 of quorum. But I don't know if anybody's got questions or comments on that or anything else with this, but the optimisms closing their governance on the 24th, I believe. So once this, hopefully this passes on snapshot, and if so, then we'll put this up to governance vote on optimism ASAP so that we do get those tokens allocated for start. I don't know if anybody's got questions, comments, concerns on that, and feel free to bring this in from the text questions area too. But yeah, anyways, that'll be looking forward to that.
00:17:11.352 - 00:17:54.618, Speaker A: And yeah, again, any questions, feel free to reach out on that. But if you've got your VestG, go and vote. Okay, next up, we've got. Yeah, I guess with the VestG fees and just kind of coming up, or I guess like the fee structure in general here. I do see izzybel in the audience. Would you like to come on up here, give you an invite if you want to chat about that a little bit? I know you had put up a proposal and. Yeah, love to hear from you a bit on that.
00:17:54.618 - 00:17:55.174, Speaker A: Sure.
00:17:55.994 - 00:18:29.434, Speaker D: Yeah, I think actually, since I put the proposal, a little bit of the opinion has changed. It's obviously more important for the protocol long term, initially to gather as much protocol on liquidity as possible. So after speaking with Max and a few others, I think it's. Oh, where the numbers at now? Something to the extent of one basis point, I believe. Oh, geez. Sorry, I wasn't prepped for this. Apologies.
00:18:29.434 - 00:19:02.596, Speaker D: In essence, the vast majority is going to pull to protocol and liquidity with somewhat of. Some of the proposal as it stands right now is for some of anywhere from one to 1.5 bps to go to Vestg holders. I do think that's important. Obviously, it gets the narrative away from. Frankly, it's a useless governance token that you hear all the time in social media. So whatever the number is, we need to have a certain number on it.
00:19:02.596 - 00:19:11.224, Speaker D: Obviously, we need to pay the integrations as well, but the vast majority needs to go to Paul. So, yeah, that's my kind of standing on at this point.
00:19:12.584 - 00:19:40.702, Speaker A: Yeah. Cool. I know that that's obviously going to help with the long term sustainability of the protocol, but, yeah, you've really touched on the two key points there, so. Yeah, that's great to see that there's been a lot of discussion around this. And I know there's even been some other channels with people discussing this too. Not only with fees, but other things. But yeah, I don't know if anybody else wants to weigh on in this.
00:19:40.702 - 00:19:50.834, Speaker A: Max and Primo, I know you guys have got. Max has been working a lot around fees and all this sort of stuff too, but we'd love to hear from you too.
00:19:52.134 - 00:20:29.334, Speaker E: Yeah, I think busy bell kind of touched on it. I think at this point in the stage of the protocol's life, maximizing protocol and liquidity should be one of, if not the highest priorities. Making sure the protocol long term can then grow to a place where it's self sustainable. It doesn't have to rely on incentivizing emissions, incentivizing liquidity through emissions to sustain transaction volume growth. So I think allocating most of the fee to protocol and liquidity to me, sets the protocol for success long term.
00:20:31.914 - 00:20:35.162, Speaker A: Yeah. And you've got perspective is it's basically.
00:20:35.218 - 00:21:06.152, Speaker B: Like convex incurred wars, right. Except rather than buying the thing to bribe, you're like buying the thing so that you don't have to bribe anymore. So like, protocol and liquidity obviously makes it where like, the more you own, the less you need to bribe. Broadly, the last numbers I saw, I don't remember what the current numbers are, but the last numbers I saw, you know, were something like one bps for V Stargate, 0.3 bps for. For the partner program, which is going to go live. We're going to have a ton of partners, all in every ecosystem, which is great.
00:21:06.152 - 00:22:07.560, Speaker B: Huge lever to get people to integrate early. And we have some amazing people integrating. The rest is basically protocol and liquidity. Or in the case that there are no emissions. So say there's a new chain where that chain wants to put up LP, then those LP should be earning some fees. So it's something like one and a half percent to the LP's if there are no emissions, and 0% for the LP's if there are emissions on the chain, because emissions obviously like dwarf LP fees at this point. But overall, I think something like this structure is like, does it accomplishes what everybody wants? And I think, again, the long term is like, once the protocol captures as much protocol and liquidity as it wants, or as it can do to kind of own this huge segment of the market without needing to bribe relentlessly, then you get into this really interesting situation where all of that can flow out.
00:22:07.560 - 00:22:08.524, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:22:10.824 - 00:22:50.524, Speaker A: Yeah, awesome. Thanks for the extra color on that. And then. Yeah, I don't know, if we've got a. Yeah, we get like, more concise numbers on all of this. And I know, like, Max has been tying in here with like the liquidity management breakdown and everything, so some of this is all going to kind of tie together. But yeah, if we've got like a, you know, more of a solid kind of like, structure or proposal around, like what we want to see out of fee structure and everything, you know, we can get that up sooner than later here onto Commonwealth.
00:22:50.524 - 00:23:13.424, Speaker A: And I know the community wants to push forward on this, so, yeah, let's get that into a formalized, a new, maybe formalized proposal with those exact parameters laid out and having with poll and everything. Let's see where that can go. But I don't know. Does that sound good with you, Izzybel, you're able to maybe repost another one?
00:23:14.364 - 00:23:15.180, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely.
00:23:15.292 - 00:23:41.084, Speaker A: No problem. Beautiful. Beautiful. Okay. And maybe as we've just been chatting about a bunch of this stuff, Max, let's. Yeah, if you want to just like, kind of go through your. Well, yeah, this proposal here on, it was kind of, it was posted in general, in general discussion, and I'm sure we could move this over into a proposal here right away just to kind of get a little more.
00:23:41.084 - 00:23:42.768, Speaker A: But yeah, go ahead. Yep.
00:23:42.856 - 00:25:08.202, Speaker E: Yes. We, working in this small working group with a few people within the community team, posted that analysis on kind of like, where TVL needs to be given transaction volumes, and then, like, what is the type of model that we can use going forward so that the protocol is incenting enough liquidity for using the historical data and then also looking at transaction volume growth while also minimizing the amount of emissions. I think we've seen over the first two months or so, emissions started really high. Liquidity was very high, and I think that was, it was good to at least have enough liquidity in the system to generate enough transaction volume data to see where the demand was occurring. Now that we have over two months of data on transfers and deposits and withdrawals, we can be much smarter about this in terms of how much liquidity we need to incentivize, while also setting up the protocol for long term success. So with that, I think there should be a proposal going up soon on snapshot that just details this monthly emissions update process in terms of how the protocol is updating emissions for each pool based on historical transaction volume demand. Yeah, I'm really excited to see us move in this step.
00:25:08.202 - 00:25:31.254, Speaker E: Right. I think obviously, like, long term protocol and liquidity having enough liquidity that the protocol owns to support transaction volume is key, but within this first year, one year to two years, the protocol needs to incentivize liquidity for growth. So we just need to be smart about how we manage that going forward. And I think a data, a data driven approach to that will get us there.
00:25:31.754 - 00:26:18.144, Speaker A: Yeah, and thank you so much for breaking all that down. It looks like there's been a lot of number crunching and that's, yeah, there's like a lot of analytics behind this. So, yeah, I really appreciate the putting that all out there. Yeah. So if people don't mind, head over into Commonwealth there and under general discussion, there's the liquidity incentivization program and other related proposal updates. Yeah, and maybe we'll come up with some other, put up another proposal here that's a little more maybe digestible, just with clear, just kind of clear objectives or outlines so that people can digest this a little easier, too. But there's a ton of info in here, so if anybody hasn't had a chance to look at that, just run through it.
00:26:18.144 - 00:26:41.512, Speaker A: Max has been analyzing all this stuff heavily, so, you know, it's great to see, like, where this can, where this can go and, like, actually being the most effective and efficient. All right. Yeah. Anything further on that, Max, or if anybody else has comments or questions?
00:26:41.568 - 00:26:57.684, Speaker E: No, nothing further. I mean, it's hard to talk about like a, like a data science model on the discord call, but if you guys have any questions on like, the data that goes into the model or some of the logic behind it, feel free to dm me. Always happy to chat on this stuff.
00:26:58.744 - 00:27:16.612, Speaker A: Perfect. Cool. And again, one of the last things here to talk about is staking RLP on curve Maki, can you speak to that a little bit more? Yep.
00:27:16.668 - 00:28:04.644, Speaker C: So we're gonna. Very soon enough, we're gonna see kind of the rewards emitting to our CRV in the form of CRV CVX to like, the curve pool. Based on the bribe that we sent, we sent around 300 plus USD worth of STG, plus redacted, voted with 250,000 USD. We also have like a few other folks that voted, but with VCurve, they are not private per se, but that is pretty good. So I think to maximize kind of, I guess, like protocol earnings and making sure the DAO is kind of getting the best bang for their buck exceptionally. I think we should be doing this proposal as soon as possible to basically earn CVX CRV. Both of these rewards are going to be handled differently.
00:28:04.644 - 00:29:17.070, Speaker C: So for CVX, in the proposal that I posted, we're going to be locking it into convex to basically vote additional rewards to our own pool afterwards and recoup some of the bribes that we going to give away ourselves. On the curve side. I think either using a liquid locker or locking out with VCRV ourselves is going to be the avenue to again get some more votes and basically make sure that our pool is self sustainable. Earning kind of curve rewards, vitamin T and helping us kind of have additional revenue there with the vCurve. What is interesting is we're going to be receiving more curve and we're also going to be receiving three CRV, which is basically stable coins. I think all the stable coins are going to be basically reused to buy even more crv. And ultimately at some point we can even discuss how to leverage them for maybe whether this is redistributing to versus target holder or some other avenues.
00:29:17.070 - 00:29:53.904, Speaker C: But for the moment, I think making sure that we are in a place where things are, I guess, less reliant on bribes is the. Is the best. So that's kind of what is going to be happening. If there's any question, feel free to comment here. Any reward accrued by the convicts, the CVX stake are going to be most likely restake into like the current strategy that we have. We're earning CVX, CRV, these are going to be staked again and so on.
00:29:57.364 - 00:30:27.964, Speaker A: Okay, there was one comment in Commonwealth here. It was just talking about like the three crv should be withdrawn and added to protocol and liquidity. Select the DAI converted to either USDC or USDT to maximize protocol and liquidity and reduce the need for mercenary capital rather than repurchasing crv at this point. Yeah, you kind of alluded to using it to buy more crv and revoting. I don't know. Would you be able to kind of like discuss which, like the.
00:30:29.704 - 00:31:13.244, Speaker C: I think it's going to be very minimal in the very beginning. It's going to be super minimal USD or you know, like 350 that we're going to be receiving. I think optimizing to have as much as possible until we have maybe, I don't know, 10,360 and rv in rewards per week or so makes way more sense than trying to add 100 USD here and there. In the beginning, I think optimizing to reach to an inflection point where this makes more sense and is more cost effective than bribing or incentivizing rewards and so on. I think we have maxim probably confirmed we have at least a few months of more kind of emissions.
00:31:16.704 - 00:31:47.368, Speaker E: So the initial emissions program runs through June, like 17th, I think. But just doing some further analysis on this, I actually think, like, by June. So there's also. So this initial mission. Sorry. This initial admissions program also has scheduled reduces. And looking at the numbers yesterday, it looks like once we hit around June 1, we'll actually start to dip below the amount of TVL that we would ideally want.
00:31:47.368 - 00:32:11.254, Speaker E: So I think this speaks back to getting the snapshot proposal up with the model for an updated emissions process. Cause I think, yeah, that's not too long away. It's about a few weeks. So if we were to get the Snapchat model up and then have the emissions program updated on an ongoing basis, I think we should be fine. But we'd love to do that sooner rather than later.
00:32:12.714 - 00:32:40.354, Speaker C: So, Terry, if we can rely a little bit more on emissions for a few months, we're going to be able to accumulate more and crv like rewards and so on, and then have more tree crv to extract from, quote unquote, like these training fees and so on to put into Stargate. So. So, yeah, that's kind of how we would go about, like, the whole kind of staking the curve lp tokens. I think it's a no brainer. And everyone is very warm at the idea.
00:32:42.374 - 00:33:03.322, Speaker A: Okay. Yeah. And so hopefully that answers that kind of comment on there and why it would be more beneficial to be to use the three crv for more. For more crv. So, yeah. Okay. I don't know anything further here that we want to touch on or discuss.
00:33:03.322 - 00:33:41.824, Speaker A: Kind of dropped a few things here today in excitement here over the next little bit. And. Yeah, I don't know if there's anybody else that's got questions, comments. Just kind of run through the questions here quickly, but let's see. Yeah, yeah, just a little more social media engagement. Yeah, we'll. Yeah, we can work on that and try and garnish more.
00:33:41.824 - 00:34:12.572, Speaker A: More attention here. Pinotio. Hello. Have you got something for us? Pinodio, you're on mute right now. Oh, awesome. Okay, well, if he reconnects, maybe we can get him back up here. I think there's somebody else here.
00:34:12.572 - 00:34:38.784, Speaker A: Be wolf. You got something as well. Be wolf. You got something for us? We can kind of hear you. Yeah, you're a little faint, but maybe just try a different mic or a different wave input here. Can't seem to hear you right now.
00:34:40.344 - 00:34:41.760, Speaker F: Okay, can you hear me better now?
00:34:41.792 - 00:34:42.884, Speaker A: There we go. Gotcha.
00:34:44.064 - 00:35:54.724, Speaker F: Cool, cool. Well, first off, I'd like to say thank you guys for creating such a great project. You know, this is really amazing work, obviously, you know, you guys, you guys are, you guys are making extreme, you guys are doing God's work, in my opinion. So that's, this is great, really. Just a quick question, just wanting to know a little bit more about, you know, proposals on fracs and if there's any kind of, and I don't know if you guys mentioned this at all or, I know you guys are discussing some other start incorporating, including ETH, but kind of wanted to know if there's any kind of thought process on fracs and also, you know, if there's any kind of lead indicator with, with basically the apy for staking, if that's going to kind of, we're going to see a little bit more of a cut with that aspect as well. Thank you.
00:35:55.304 - 00:36:15.576, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely. And thanks so much for the comments. Yeah, I mean, I think broadly, again, the goal of, the goal of Stargate. So just thinking from the ends of the protocol is clearly tab, like, as many assets as possible because assets and chains mean volume. Right. And volume and fees. Like Stargate wants to monopolize fees.
00:36:15.576 - 00:36:33.040, Speaker B: It wants to be the liquidity transfer layer of everything, of all of defi. And so I think the question becomes kind of like, at what cost? Right. So right now, you know, it's getting to a point where it's paying out emissions. Great. Emissions are getting less, which is also very good. And the fees are pretty reasonable. Right.
00:36:33.040 - 00:37:04.300, Speaker B: Like, you know, the almost a billion and a half sort of volume done on the protocol. Fantastic. So in the current stables, which are definitely like the most volume that's being driven at the moment, we're getting to a point where at some point we could say, hey, with protocol and liquidity and this, like, maybe we'll hit parity soon. Maybe we'll hit the point where like, we don't need to subsidize things or we're profitable kind of with fees against, you know, against the outflow of emissions. That's, that's a world you can see. You add an ETH and ETH also has like a lot of volume. So great.
00:37:04.300 - 00:38:04.034, Speaker B: As you start to get to the long tail assets, it becomes like, okay, well, how much needs to be put up? And basically, what are we paying? Like, does the volume justify it? So I think there's a couple of ways you can do this when you're doing like, actual long tail. Like, imagine we just wanted to open it up to everything. So this would be like a Dex model, right? A uniswap a sushiswap. We say anybody can add pools on Stargate. Stargate can now be the bridge for everybody. Any long tail asset can add, but you need to basically incentivize your own, just like you need to incentivize your own kind of Dex pairs, or put up the coin yourself as the team there so people have inventory to bridge around, or incentivize other people to put it up. So that's a model you could take when we're adding, when we're looking at other things, whether it's fracs and Fey and other stables, or whether it's something completely not stable at all, just something who wants to have a reliable bridge that isn't reliant on anybody else and has like this consistent structure.
00:38:04.034 - 00:38:43.568, Speaker B: It just comes down to like, what is the cost that Stargate is willing to pay to get this asset here? Or is the team, is the team and community of that project willing to put up some inventory, put up some incentivization, et cetera, in the way it works with dexs. And so I think we're still trying to figure out what that model looks like broadly. I think right now it's been kind of like a case by case basis. I know chains have said, hey, we want Stargate and we're willing to put up, you know, x million dollars in stables. So there's, there's liquidity coming in and out. It's not, they're not paying anything, right, they're just LP ing. So it doesn't really cost them anything and they get fees.
00:38:43.568 - 00:39:37.984, Speaker B: It just costs them some, some basically, you know, opportunity cost if they were going to be farming or doing something else with their, with their treasury. And the same, like if Frac said, hey, we will put up all of the fracs in all pools. And so Stargate doesn't need to give emissions, and now our users have this bridge that goes everywhere. I think we would probably add it ASAP. I think it just comes down to what does that look like? And I think Stargate, us as a sort of governance system, needs to decide what do we want? How much do we want to get for new assets? Do we want to vote on it? You can make this ve structure where you're like kind of voting on which assets get added. So then it's like a bribe system where people will either bribe ve holders or they will basically accumulate ve to be able to vote for themselves. There's a bunch of different ways that you could model this.
00:39:37.984 - 00:40:14.114, Speaker B: But yeah, I think those are like, I can tell you, those are the factors that the protocol should be thinking about as it goes about making these decisions. But at the end of the day it should want to add everything because more assets is just more volume and like we want the most volume possible. It just comes down to the cost. And so that's how I frame it myself internally. I think as a protocol we need to decide like hey, what do we want this to look like? So if you have any kind of ideas around that or anybody else, it's a topic I definitely want to dive into more, but I don't think I have a perfect solution for right now.
00:40:17.474 - 00:40:42.978, Speaker A: Yeah, and any of that stuff too. Like feel free to always start conversations in over in Commonwealth and yeah, to get like, you know, more. Yeah. More light on it and just to be able to like see where this can go. So even if it is like, it doesn't always have to be a full fleshed proposal, it could just be in general discussion and start chatting with it there or however. But yeah, if you've got got ideas around it. Yeah, feel free.
00:40:42.978 - 00:40:45.774, Speaker A: Please. We want to, we want to hear from, from everyone.
00:40:47.234 - 00:40:48.294, Speaker F: Thank you guys.
00:40:50.474 - 00:41:07.506, Speaker A: Yeah, you bet. You bet. I see Max and pinotio are back up. Max, I don't know. Do you have something to add to that last bit? Oh good. All good. Panodio, have you got something? Howdy.
00:41:07.570 - 00:41:10.464, Speaker G: Sorry about the microphone. My browser had it blocked.
00:41:10.634 - 00:41:11.572, Speaker B: Just a quick question.
00:41:11.628 - 00:41:49.784, Speaker G: Yeah, I guess adding more and more assets makes sense. I would just be a little careful of reputational risk. Like I question a bit FTX's decision to support Ust because I just think it was pure dodgy. Anyway, that's a short comment. A broader question I have is where do you see the positioning of Stargate with respect to omni chain aggregators? So as there are more aggregators that being used that will kind of aggregate between Stargate and alternatives, how do you kind of see the strategic positioning and advantage of Stargate? Is it about being the best of those omnichains?
00:41:51.164 - 00:42:47.336, Speaker B: Yeah, so I mean, I think broadly, one thing I've always thought was suspect about these omni chain aggregation in general is like, I don't know that the best idea for any protocol or anybody is like let's take on the security properties of everybody. Adopting ten different security properties is normally not the way you want to approach security because it's just more attack vectors. The probability that one of those ten or two of those ten go down, go up drastically. I think in most cases it's not what you want to do on the long tail of things. But I think from what everybody tells me, I mean, if you look at our volume, if you look at everything, even on just the limited asset pairs we have now, I think we have one of the highest tvls now. I think maybe the second highest tvl, like wormhole is now below us as well. So I think like, we're pretty well situated.
00:42:47.336 - 00:43:30.314, Speaker B: We're extremely competitive on fees. You get the actual native asset. So compared to all the wrapped asset bridges, you know, you're saving yourself like 30 bps on the destination chain from needing to swap out. Yeah, I mean, I think all things considered, we have a bunch of people in kind of the Stargate group are really big power users. And I think when it comes to using bridges within Defi for all the things that sort of drive the most volume, Stargate remains like very compellingly competitive. Yeah. And I would say that that plus then the application side, the application wants this consistent experience.
00:43:30.314 - 00:43:36.074, Speaker B: This is when you have sushi, when you have the others. I think we can provide something there that nobody else can provide at the moment.
00:43:40.574 - 00:43:44.286, Speaker A: Appreciate it. Awesome. Thank you very much.
00:43:44.310 - 00:43:45.954, Speaker B: Pinotio anytime.
00:43:48.214 - 00:44:17.584, Speaker A: Okay. I don't know if anybody else has last comments, questions, concerns on this is probably a great place to wrap up here. We've covered a lot of stuff today. If not, yeah, we can wrap it up here. But yeah, thanks everybody for coming out this week. And yeah, we'll have this up on YouTube. It's live streaming now, so it shouldn't, should be there and available.
00:44:17.584 - 00:44:47.908, Speaker A: And yeah, anybody that did stick around or that's been here that wants to stick around for a PO app, you'll be able to claim that afterwards. I think that should be running and good to go. So you'll be able to claim that afterwards. But yeah, thanks everybody. We will see you all next week and we can reconvene then. But yeah, please keep going. Any comments coming in, you know, obviously through discord and, yeah, don't, don't hesitate to get into Commonwealth and put some stuff up there too.
00:44:47.908 - 00:44:58.044, Speaker A: That's where, you know, the governance is, discussions are happening and that's where we can shape and build the protocol from there. Thanks everybody. We will see you all soon. Bye bye.
