00:00:01.210 - 00:01:23.170, Speaker A: All right, so thank you guys for joining and welcome to the 9th edition and the second one of the Mev Roast. I am Tina from the flashbots crew. And here with us on the call there is phil, alex Obadia and steph goslin and scott bigelow. We are going to start out with a brief intro of Flashboss update from research and engineering side. And then we'll leave the stage for our roastmaster, Dan dan Elitzer here, who will first present a pleasant surprise presentation on a proposal. It's not implemented by Flashbot's crew core, but it is an interesting early stage idea. Dan would like to get feedback from all of us here and then we'll move on to five very interesting and sharp questions that we would love to hear everyone to dive in and share thoughts.
00:01:23.170 - 00:02:20.170, Speaker A: So instead of having everyone introduce yourself up front because we have a lot of new friends here, let's leave that to the last part so that we get to hang out. And for those of us who wants to chat more about future collaboration. Cool. So Alex, would you mind sharing the link for our presentation? That would be probably the easiest for everyone to see, sharing the link as well as sharing the screen, if possible, you should have seen this also in the agenda, it is included. Cool. So I think at the beginning, I will share with everyone the TLDR on. We're going to skip the basics.
00:02:20.170 - 00:03:02.722, Speaker A: The principle is please speak up and ask your questions. And if you have any questions, you can also at the same time, send it in the chat. And on the link that Alex just shared, this is the slides. Also in the agenda, there are the links that you can actually navigate yourself. So these three links are one is the Medium post. One is the east research post, which focuses more on our technical solution and our proof of concept that has been implemented mebget. And lastly, most importantly, everything is on our flashbox GitHub.
00:03:02.722 - 00:03:33.070, Speaker A: We commit to open source so our latest activities can be seen on our GitHub. Cool. All right, next slide. So, as I mentioned, there are three parts today. I'll start out with a research side from the flashback update. And next slide please, Alex. Next slide.
00:03:33.070 - 00:05:22.850, Speaker A: All right, so on the research update, we have received five FRPS submitted in the past month. And within the five FRPS received, we have been able to cover the paper one that we plan to deliver, which is a flashbox white paper, the crypto systems paper on all three of the core research directions. And on paper two, I think we have two submissions from the Imperial College researchers on the topic of minimizing consensus, harm of priority, bribe incentives. All the research questions that you see unfilled are the ones that we would love to encourage those of you on the call to take on. Or you could also collaborate or comment on the flashbox research proposals the FRPS already submitted, all you need to do is go on GitHub, MEB research the repo and at the current moment, all of the outstanding submitted FRPS are in our pull requests and they will be merged upon review. And lastly, the best way to participate in research, if you want to find out more information, go on the GitHub, create an issue for yourself or comment on issues or FRPS and join us for our weekly every Thursday research workshop. That said, we will announce the Mev Fellows by tomorrow, our research workshop.
00:05:22.850 - 00:05:53.870, Speaker A: And so can we go back one more slide, another aspect of research update. I will leave it to Alex Albadia from the flashbox core crew to give us an update on a proposal based on our previous research workshops last week's research workshops conclusion or tentative proposal on Mev taxonomy? Alex.
00:05:58.690 - 00:07:14.360, Speaker B: Yes, I'm here also sharing the GitHub issue about it, so it'll be quick, but we noticed as we put out our initial content introducing Flashbots that there was a lot of confusion with the term mev and even within ourselves, within the research organization, we were using mev to mean slightly different things. And we also noticed that to a newcomer, mev could have been confusing the term itself, referring to miners when it was other people currently extracting the value and other such issues. And so after the past research workshop last week on Thursday and the GitHub issue that I shared in this chat that is also mentioned here, issue 24, we kind of discussed different approaches to solving some of this issue. And one thing that we've kind of come to some consensus on is that forms the current proposal I'm presenting now is to change the term mev from minor extractable value to maximum extractable value. The change would encompass other consensus protocols other than proof of work. It would be backwards compatible. So maximum extractable value applies to anywhere where mev meant minor extractable value in the past.
00:07:14.360 - 00:08:20.934, Speaker B: And with the introduction of maximum extractable value or the upgrade of that M, we also would like to potentially propose, I mean we like to propose the introduction of this other term which would be a realized extractable value. In that case, that would be denoting the value that has been extracted relative to the potential value that can be extracted from a given block. The main point there is there was confusion between extract and unextractable that was used interchangeably and when you use the acronyms, the e is now clear what it is. So having a separate term for that made a lot of sense to us. That would be maximum extractable value rather than minor extractable value and potentially realized extractable value to denote the value that has been extracted. So in a way, mev is the upper bound of rev on a specific block. There's a lot more to the discussion on mev taxonomy.
00:08:20.934 - 00:09:25.860, Speaker B: This is really just the superficial side. But then there's a lot of classification of different kinds of mev depending on the sequences of transactions and building a better understanding of that is part of our research goals and something that we're actively looking to do. But this is the initial proposal, at least on terms that we plan to potentially adopt in our communications going forward, as well as propose to the community as terms to adopt. That's it. If you want to comment either here, as Tina just mentioned in the chat, or on the issue itself, it's open to the public and there's a lot of discussion there. Dan just asked is Riv intended as net or gross? It's intended as gross. I think net is a little bit more difficult because what do you take away from that? Is it just gas cost, depending if you're a bot operator, but it's also maybe setup cost if you have some infrastructure set up for that.
00:09:25.860 - 00:10:06.400, Speaker B: Yeah, that's fair. I think that makes sense. The simple thing would be just like subtracting the gas costs from it, but it's probably cleaner just to leave it as gross. Also, I mean, if you're a miner, maybe you wouldn't necessarily pay gas costs if you're inserting the transactions. Very fair. So these are terms we propose and we would love to discuss them more. Really invite you to check out the GitHub issue because there's a lot of back and forth between different proposals and some of them might resonate more with you and we definitely want to hear what you think.
00:10:06.400 - 00:10:28.480, Speaker B: That's it for that update, so unless you guys have any more questions, we can move on. Tina, should I go to the following slides?
00:10:31.460 - 00:11:43.072, Speaker A: Hi, sorry, I lost it for a second. So, any further questions on the Reb MEB proposal? This is the beginning of our discussion and proposal on the update of the MDB Meme. It was a very interesting discussion from our last research workshop and a lot of us here on the call were part of it. For anyone who was interested in the discussion on the GitHub issue, as well as you can check out on our flashballs MEB research repo. We also posted the discussions, the recording, so you can find out more, so please comment and we want as much discussion on these as possible. The MEB taxonomy is part of our core research questions and it basically is something that we will be addressing throughout our paper. One of the flashback research paper on our research roadmap.
00:11:43.072 - 00:13:05.132, Speaker A: Next slide and then one after. Sorry. Yeah, here a quick update on the timeline. So once again, our Mev research timeline during the MVP phase, which exit in Q One next year, is pretty clear here and we have so far been sticking to the deadlines. So our deadline for the DRAP FRP submission has been the past Sunday and as we mentioned, five FRPS were received and they're being reviewed and commented and we invite everyone on this call and who you think will be appropriate to help review and comment on these Flashpaths research proposals that has been submitted. And tomorrow the Mev Fellowship grant will be granted. And we decided that there's a lot of interest to contribute for the FlashPass research proposal, so we would like to make it a rolling schedule, make the Mev Fellowship a rolling grant so that we would like the next RFRP deadline to be mid January.
00:13:05.132 - 00:13:35.652, Speaker A: Sorry, there was a typo. It's not December 13, it's January 13, 2021. So that folks who's interested in these tackling some of the research questions, can create a PR and submit over the holidays if that's something that you are interested in doing. And the grants, once again, is ten to 20K USDC, that's basically it. Everything can be found on our GitHub on the research site.
00:13:35.726 - 00:14:52.470, Speaker B: Next. All right, I'll talk a bit about how the organization is progressing. So as the scope of the research and engineering effort grows, we've tried to put together a structure that allows for our coordination internally to grow as well. And so the core dev work, which was previously all done sort of in a single work stream, is now being split up into various different work streams depending on the phase of the project. So if you guys are interested in participating, there's sort of a separate work stream for each different effort that Flashbots is involved in, and each of those are being led by Navigators. So I've listed here on the left side some of the roles within the organization that various different people have at different points in time. The stewards are the ones that are in charge of mostly administration and keeping the organization on track.
00:14:52.470 - 00:16:02.192, Speaker B: The Navigators are in charge of coordinating the strategic decisions and execution of the work streams and the projects. And then crew members are the ones who perform the tasks that are required to achieve the objectives in each work stream. So hopefully this is a structure that's going to allow us to work in parallel on these various different objectives while maintaining good performance and efficiency. So all of the project plans are being hosted on GitHub, so you can go to PM to get an overview of what we're working on. And if you're interested in participating in any of those efforts, I'd point you guys to the discord for discussion. We'll continue providing updates presentations on these roasts, so you can also catch up here's.
00:16:02.336 - 00:16:14.190, Speaker A: Awesome. Next slide. Yeah. Steph, do you want to share about this, or would you want Scott, our navigator, to share more on the MEB search?
00:16:16.580 - 00:16:20.130, Speaker B: Doesn't make a difference to me. Scott, do you want to try it? Yeah, sure.
00:16:21.220 - 00:17:53.368, Speaker C: So on the MEB search side, this is what we define as the actual bots that are submitting various transactions to these bundle endpoints to be included in Flashbots blocks. We're making some progress today, and we've actually accelerated a couple of the timelines that we originally were anticipating for some of our initial searchers. So I'm going to start with the building open source searcher for bootstrapping. We're working on a very simplistic Arbitrage searcher that is going to do two way Arbitrage between various DEXes such as Uniswap V Two and Balancer or Balancer and some uniswap clone. And we're going to try to get that out actually in the next just few days. What's the implementation? Yeah, so we're talking about creating something that there's a question that said what's the implementation? I'm not familiar with CVX PY, but we were talking about creating something that people that often write bots could use as an example in order to write their own system that integrates with Flashbots. My previous experience has been in TypeScript, and we've written a TypeScript library that integrates with Ethers that allows high level interaction with the endpoints.
00:17:53.368 - 00:19:00.820, Speaker C: And so this is going to be the first open source searcher that utilizes this library to interact with ETH send bundle without using raw RPC calls and just a really basic kind of matching searcher that can do these things. I imagine this thing you mentioned in the question was a python system, and I think that having a Python one would also be a great thing to have. I'd love to have maybe some assistance there. It's been quite a while since I've done any python work, but I think that's another very popular bot operating language, and the more we can have, especially as examples early on, it's going to help more people see how to integrate with the system and really outsource the searcher volume that we need to get in order to incentivize more and more hash power to be put behind Flash bots. So we're hoping to have that probably by the beginning of next week. And that's going to also use the basic searcher tooling. Another thing there which is really just the library that allows high level integration.
00:19:00.820 - 00:19:44.610, Speaker C: One other thing that I wanted to mention is Afalda Ticket that covers transaction simulation. Right now, neither Guest nor Parity have APIs that are capable of doing a full transaction simulation based on an array of transactions at arbitrary block heights. And I think that we can make some of those changes to either Geth or Open Ethereum to allow this, which is going to be really important for bundle providers. Since failed bundles don't land on chain, it's very important that we provide simulation tooling to let them see what would have happened if they had succeeded. Yeah, and thank you. So Alex just posted the issue that talks about the actual change to.
00:19:46.500 - 00:19:46.768, Speaker B: The.
00:19:46.774 - 00:21:01.268, Speaker C: Gethjson RPC call that would support would be I think this is something that isn't just useful for Flashbots, this is something that's useful enough that I think we could probably get this pushed upstream right now. East call and some of these trace calls just don't provide enough functionality to perfectly trace something and I think we can fix that. Also created a survey so there's a link there that's for bot operators to volunteer some information about the bot they're running, how often they replace transactions, what languages they use. Again, we're talking about that Python question that came up earlier. I'd love to hear a lot more about what people are using so we can focus our efforts on the examples that we publish and the libraries that we support initially in order to help these bot operators migrate or at least add Flashbot's bundle submission into their existing bots. But I think giving them a demonstration of how to do that is really important. And Stefan, we were kind of talking about this public from day zero, that very first point.
00:21:01.268 - 00:21:06.350, Speaker C: Do you want to talk about that a little bit? Think there was a little bit of I had some questions about that.
00:21:07.760 - 00:21:56.830, Speaker B: Yeah, sure, I can touch on it. So the goal is to make sure that all the work that we do as an organization is in the public. And so we're doing some testing to make sure that all the endpoints work correctly. But as soon as there's going to be actual strategies available to be executed on, then the endpoints were going to be made public. We're planning on running a proxy that allows for relaying all the bundles to all the miners that have enabled Flashbots and making that open to the public. So that will come sometime in the next few months. We haven't finalized a timeline, but it will be made public as soon as it goes live.
00:21:58.640 - 00:22:37.450, Speaker C: Yeah, and I do have a call to action there and that is that if you are a bot operator, we'd love to have more as many submissions of that survey as possible. And all the questions there are optional and we try to keep the ranges really generic so it's not really obvious. We're looking for things like zero to 25%, 25% to 100%, very granular. So I don't think that you're be leveraging anything that's really de anonymizing, but it really help us just to know what languages you're interested in and how much competition impacts your profitability, that kind of thing.
00:22:43.040 - 00:23:05.410, Speaker A: Cool. Steph, do you have anything you would like to add on the question? We get a lot. Oh, will Flashbots be running proprietors searchers, will we become a proprietor hedge fund, et cetera? And kind of our stance on bootstrapping, the MDB search competitive market side.
00:23:06.580 - 00:23:37.996, Speaker B: Yeah, sure. So I can clarify that Flashbots, the organization itself is focused on research and so it doesn't have any plans to build proprietary searcher and compete on the market. The focus is really on providing the tooling necessary for others to be able to participate on it. And so when we talk about these industrial searchers that we're considering building, they are meant to be for bootstrapping purposes and will be open sourced. So that's where the focus of the.
00:23:38.018 - 00:24:02.710, Speaker C: Organizing and also remember, these are open source searchers that we're planning on releasing. So they're going to be fairly simplistic, but they're going to if we were planning on running our own searchers, probably the worst thing we could do is open source what we're doing, because then we're just competing for fees. So that's not really what we're doing right now. We're really trying to get other people to start tying into the system.
00:24:03.640 - 00:24:49.776, Speaker A: Yeah, and by other people. I think half of you guys here, I recognize, probably run your own bots. So no, Flashbots as an organization is not going to compete with you. Flashbots would like to get your input from the survey to create more toolings around so that you can have fun playing in Flashbots. So I think that's the overall ethos of Flashbots, our research organization on the MVB search side, and the best way to kind of take part of it is join our discord and ask your questions. Try flashboss out. We are at this moment not yet onboarding hash rate aggressively.
00:24:49.776 - 00:25:19.040, Speaker A: We're still in the testing phase, but we would like to prepare for it, which will be in a couple of weeks. We'll be ready. So cool. Next. Awesome. So, Dan and Austin, would you like to introduce yourself a bit and take it from here? Feel free to share screen our screen off.
00:25:19.890 - 00:25:52.970, Speaker B: Yeah. Let me see if I can pull this up here. Ben, do you want to share your screen? Yeah, that'd be great. Is this coming through?
00:25:55.580 - 00:25:56.936, Speaker D: Yep, looks good.
00:25:57.118 - 00:27:04.640, Speaker B: Okay, cool. My name is Dan Elitzer. I'm co founder of a fund called Nascent, which is pretty active in the space. And Austin is a longtime friend who is a security researcher at Open Zeppelin. And we were talking a few weeks ago and I came up with this idea that we think might be applicable to a certain class of mev problems. It's certainly not fully generalizable and gotten some pretty good feedback from a few people, but wanted to bring it to this broader group to see if others thought that there was something promising here and discuss what it might look like to implement on a practical level. So we called this protocol Rights Tokens, and another name considered was like, Highlander Tokens.
00:27:04.640 - 00:28:07.412, Speaker B: There can be only one. So to emphasize overall, we all know that a lot of MVV opportunities are just not really great for the network and for users in a lot of ways. But the first piece of this proposed solution is to have a single NFT per protocol, and the address that holds that NFT gets an exclusive window on capturing some of these M and B activities. And so after some kind of delay, two blocks, ten blocks, somewhere in that range, probably anybody can capture that opportunity. So think about, like, liquidations, right? The idea being that if a position is eligible for liquidation for the first two blocks or so, that it's five blocks maybe that it's eligible for liquidation. Only the holder of the PRT is able to do that liquidation after that window. Anybody can do it.
00:28:07.412 - 00:29:13.944, Speaker B: So the idea is to really reduce back running spam. This idea of having a single address that is able to get kind of first shot at something like this was actually suggested to me by Jeremy Rubin, who's a good friend and does Bitcoin development work. And then the idea to then add the NFT to kind of represent that and make it transferable, right, I think is an interesting addition to this, but it allows anybody can still do this after that initial window. So hopefully you cut down on spam. Worst case, these activities still take place and there is a competitive chance for anyone to do it, but it's just pushed back a few blocks. Where I think this gets really cool is what if you actually apply a Harburger tax, a Harbitra tax to this. So the idea here for those who aren't familiar is that the owner of the PRT gets to set a price for the PRT and they're paying a tax on the basis of that price.
00:29:13.944 - 00:30:02.840, Speaker B: But the other piece of that is that anybody can then buy the PRT off them for that price. So it's in their best interest to price it at what they think is like a fair value that they're willing to pay. And they can still be profitable because they try to underprice it, somebody else will grab it. If they overprice it, they're paying more in tax than the opportunity is really worth to them. And so the result here should be that the PRT ends up in the most efficient hands to hold it. And the assumption here is that that would end up being roughly equal to what is currently being expended in total on gas or other costs for back running transactions in a competitive manner.
00:30:03.260 - 00:30:28.850, Speaker D: Just a quick clarifying point, just in case it's not clear. Buying the NFT above the current inferred subjective value price of the holder is not something that requires the current holder's consent. So if you think that the current holder is under pricing the PRT, you can buy it from them without their approval. So that's a key property.
00:30:29.300 - 00:31:36.364, Speaker B: Yes, that's a very important property. So that's what makes it be efficient here, right. Anybody can grab it from at any time. And that also gets to a potential kind of implementation question that we're going to raise later. What this does. The last thing is like taking the tax and actually how do we talk about value capture? Because I know that's something that has come up a bit in discussions and needs to be figured out with overall efforts of Flashbots and of this mev work is what do you do with that value capture? And so here, because it's value that is being effectively extracted from use of a single protocol, what if we just force that value back into the protocol that is creating these mev opportunities by saying that these taxes are actually paid by burning the protocol's native token. So the idea is that rather than having this captured by miners or validators, instead the value is returned to owners of the protocol.
00:31:36.364 - 00:32:40.264, Speaker B: And so a way to help conceptualize this maybe is first just to recap it and then give an example. So we're talking about a single NFT per protocol that gets the exclusive right to be the first one to address these M B opportunities. The ownership of this is governed by a Harbinger tax, so anybody can buy the PRT from the current holder at any time at the price set by the current holder. But the current holder must pay taxes based on that price that they've set. And then the value capture happens via a burn, where this tax is paid by burning native tokens of the protocol. So, for an example, if you applied this to compound, you could upgrade compound to make it so that only the holder of the PRT token can liquidate positions for the first five blocks that are below liquidation threshold. Anyone you just initially put it out there, anyone can claim it and then just set the price initially.
00:32:40.264 - 00:33:18.920, Speaker B: So it's like free other than transaction fee gas to claim it initially. They set a price, they either periodically or on a continuous basis essentially are burning comp to pay the tax. And then if they cease to pay the tax, anyone can just claim it and set a new price. But this is a way of basically saying that the right to be able to do this liquidation then gets accrued to comp holders in the form of comp being burned for this, right. So rather than seeing it get externalized to ethereum network validators.
00:33:21.660 - 00:33:22.216, Speaker D: Like I said.
00:33:22.238 - 00:34:26.990, Speaker B: This is not fully generalizable. This is something that you need specific types of mev incidents, they probably need to be relatively predictable and frequent, because otherwise you don't want to pay a tax on some rights where it's very infrequent and it's just harder to price. The amount of value per incident needs to be high enough to actually be worth competing over, and then there needs to be low likelihood of negative impact if waiting for a couple of blocks. I'm thinking leverage positions, so maybe like dYdX liquidations or if you're doing perps or something like that, where you're taking 20 X leverage, you don't want those. Where you probably need to be a lot more aggressive in liquidations. It's probably not the right place to apply this, so it needs to be place where you've got a little bit more lenient liquidation policy or MVV opportunity. And so here, I'm actually going to pass it over.
00:34:26.990 - 00:34:34.270, Speaker B: Two questions here, but actually I think maybe it's helpful. Austin, do you want to do the next.
00:34:36.500 - 00:35:51.936, Speaker D: Yes, you actually have control of the slide, so as far as the Uniswap swap fee capture. This is an idea that an application of this idea that Mike Azoltu had so uniswap, if governance ever manages to get together and flip the fee switch on, it will result in uniswap collecting fees in thousands of different tokens. And so there's this question of how do you then convert that value to unitoken holders? And it's like a non trivial problem, right? Like there's hundreds or potentially thousands of these tokens. You have to somehow convert that into something that can be easily captured by the unitoken holder. So Micah's idea was that the Uniswap factory contract has a fee to address, which is the address that receives all of the fees. So what if the fee to address was always the address of the owner of one of these PRTS? So as soon as the owner changes hands, then the fee to address changes and the new holder accrues all of the fees that the Uniswap protocol takes while they're holding the tokens. And then the taxes on the PRT would be paid by burning Uni tokens.
00:35:51.936 - 00:36:27.220, Speaker D: And then that way transfer the value of the accrued fees in all of these potentially thousands of different small tokens in the form of reduced unitoken supply. So that was an interesting idea as well. And he started to code up implementation. We found some like there's always devils in the details, little subtle issues, some people have even pointed some of these out already in the comments of this call. But yeah, I thought this is another interesting application of these interesting rights tokens.
00:36:28.520 - 00:37:12.428, Speaker B: Yeah, we capture some of our open questions on this. Basically the implementation of the tax to me feels very tricky also, and I went back and forth a little bit on, I think we got to a pretty good place in terms of thinking that generally it wouldn't be that tricky to be able to prove that the mev opportunities exist long enough. But there is some question in terms of how oracles are used and we're using an accumulator, how this is occurring to be able to efficiently prove it's.
00:37:12.444 - 00:38:27.400, Speaker D: Been available long enough, right? So in some cases, in the Uniswap case, I think it would be like a really clear kind of easy fit without too much difficulty. But in the case, if you think of like compound liquidations, it's not immediately obvious how they would do this, in particular restricting the rights to the first, let's say two to ten blocks of the token holder, because how does the protocol know how long the liquidation has been available to be liquidated? How do they know how long the account has been underwater? And the answer is like, they don't right now. So it would require more fundamental changes to the protocol itself. You have to provide normal liquidators, liquidators who do not currently hold the PRT, some ability to prove how long, some ability to prove that a given liquidation has been available. For longer than the two to ten blocks available, which is not entirely straightforward to do. It's not something you can sort of easily or obviously tack on to every possible mev situation, but there seem to be like a small subset of them where this might be strictly better than what we have now with back running and flooding.
00:38:29.980 - 00:39:20.856, Speaker B: Cool. Yeah. And then not sure if burning the protocol tokens is the best approach to value capture. It seems like a relatively straightforward one, but there certainly are other ways to do it. And then really just like, where is this potentially useful? So, yeah, that was kind of our thoughts here and then wanted to sorry, I've not been in the chat, so I haven't seen all these questions. Let's see, looking at where if we need to if you want to jump in with anyone I'm reading through them all now, but if there's I'll jump.
00:39:20.888 - 00:40:22.456, Speaker C: With one, I think it's awesome. I think it's a really interesting idea and I did want to add some context here, which is that I recently investigated the CryptoKitties system, this old project by now that had this mev surrounding the birthing fee. Whenever you birth a cat, you're due some small fee. They actually recently upgraded their contract about, I think it was about a year and a half ago, that gives them the exclusive right for five blocks to be the only one that's allowed to do this. So they're able to do so with very small gas and accrue that value, but at the same time they justify it's still decentralized because other bots will pick up the slack after that five block window has elapsed. So it sounds like there is some movement towards this very slightly preferential treatment of bot operators, but I think this kind of decentralizes it further in a way that isn't just hard coded, which kind of feels a little bit yeah, yeah.
00:40:22.578 - 00:40:54.200, Speaker B: And I think I started off exploring this mechanism. I think Austin had looked at a project that had done a similar thing where it really was just like first person to get there, but done in a centralized way that kept it from creating a lot of on chain spam. But yeah, I think it feels better, right, to just say we're going to efficiently assign this and reduce it to a single transaction. In the majority of cases to a single transaction.
00:40:56.540 - 00:41:58.908, Speaker E: Yeah, I think I have a lot of specific comments maybe we can discuss offline because I think a lot of other people have more interesting specific comments. But one thing I wanted to point out is I guess the NFT bit reminds me a lot of work that was done like, three, four years ago around gas price futures and specifically, like, protocol based gas price futures, where the Ethereum protocol would issue NFT based future for a particular kind of slot in the future in advance. And then that thing can kind of be traded on the market and the protocol would enforce that. The miner would allow the holder of that NFT to kind of redeem their priority rights as of some block. So in general, I just wonder because basically this NFT is kind of like a future but like protocol specific. Like if we can use futures pricing and other kind of futures work that's been done in other commodities areas to kind of understand how these things should be priced and things like that. So that's just like a general economic research area.
00:41:58.908 - 00:42:10.610, Speaker E: I started doing it for gas, but I'm not trained in finance, so probably there are other people than me who would be better suited to do the actual analyses. But I think it's a cool direction for sure.
00:42:13.160 - 00:42:29.304, Speaker B: Interesting. So the idea there would be, rather than kind of like having one NFT, essentially you would have tokens that represent rights for a specific series of blocks that you could for future blocks. Is that the idea?
00:42:29.342 - 00:42:30.170, Speaker E: Yeah, exactly.
00:42:33.340 - 00:42:43.390, Speaker B: That's kind of cool. I have to think more about that. I think it could be more efficient or it could be less efficient, and I'm not sure which it would be.
00:42:46.910 - 00:43:01.790, Speaker C: I also like the idea of you could speculate this NFT. It's like if you buy the maker token, you could proactively buy it if you want to short ETH. I wonder if there's speculation there from even people who don't operate a bot.
00:43:03.970 - 00:43:31.500, Speaker E: Sorry, my thing was lagging. Yeah, I think this is basically a permissionless version of that. And that's why I think it's super interesting because it doesn't require changes to the protocol, which I think was a lot of the sticking points on the early work on gas price futures. You only need changes to the app level, which maybe speaks to your next roast question about how much of this should be at the protocol versus the app level. I think it's the same question. But anyway, I'll stop talking now to give other people a chance.
00:43:36.240 - 00:44:18.744, Speaker B: I want to bring up maybe Robert's question in the chat. I'm going to read it out loud. Does the Harburger tax model with four sales push out all but the most sophisticated players, as in others overpay for their as others overpay for the analytic ability or get bought out of the market by those with better analytic resources? I think Robert is asking if this kind of pushes out the smaller players because the one who will own that kind of NFT token will be the most optimized. And so you're kind of encouraging the most sophisticated players to own the market. In a way, yeah.
00:44:18.782 - 00:44:36.960, Speaker F: Actually, Stefan asked it better and simpler, which is that are you really incentivized? Does this give a lot of people incentivization? If you think you're going to lose to the best player, then does this mechanism kind of cause most people to not really try to bid on these PRTS?
00:44:40.660 - 00:44:49.780, Speaker D: Isn't that already the case, though, when people spin up bots, you're going to lose to the most sophisticated players anyway. I don't know that it's strictly worse.
00:44:51.000 - 00:44:57.910, Speaker C: Yeah. So now instead of losing to the most sophisticated, you're losing to the person who's willing to charge the least for their time.
00:44:58.920 - 00:45:19.070, Speaker D: I see. That's interesting because I sort of assumed those were the same thing. But then again, I assume that everyone who's running bots is running them very nearly optimized. So at that point it's just a matter of who's willing to sacrifice the most of their proceeds to the miners. But yeah, I can see that there is, I think, technically a difference between those two things.
00:45:21.750 - 00:46:10.286, Speaker B: Yeah. It's a subtle distinction and potentially an important one. My intuition is that it's not worse. The nice thing about having the competition every single time there's an MV opportunity is there's at least more than one player who's generally competing at each one. And so it does create a more kind of like resilient safety net. If the person doing this who owns the PRT is capturing it every single time, other people are going to stop maintaining their bots or likely to stop maintaining their bots and looking for these opportunities, and then this person goes away. It could actually create a problem for the protocol if there's nobody there ready to pick up the slack.
00:46:10.286 - 00:46:14.020, Speaker B: So that is one of the risks that I see to it.
00:46:14.470 - 00:46:23.158, Speaker F: Yeah, I think that's a good point. And I didn't mean to like I hate being a person to point out something like I'm criticizing. I think this is a really brilliant idea.
00:46:23.324 - 00:46:24.486, Speaker B: That's why I brought it here.
00:46:24.588 - 00:46:30.440, Speaker D: Yeah. We want you to destroy this thing. If it's bad, we want it dead sooner than later.
00:46:31.770 - 00:46:58.100, Speaker F: I don't know that it's a solution or not, but there is a property that is really good about lottery based mining, which is that as long as you personally are finding the value high enough, you're not starved out of ever winning. You win proportional to the work you put in. And obviously that's not always possible because there are fundamentally winner takes all races, like in high frequency trading, which this is kind of the DeFi version of in some ways.
00:47:01.900 - 00:47:02.216, Speaker D: Yeah.
00:47:02.238 - 00:48:02.780, Speaker B: I think the interesting thing here is it changes what capabilities are being paid. Right. So I think to Phil's point, it actually moves the value capture to people who are better at pricing this from a kind of financial instrument standpoint, rather than those who are technically equipped to win the bot wars. It does change who is a kind of winner here. And the question is, in general, I feel like we shouldn't prefer one skill set to the other. It's really a question of what are the externalities on the ethereum ecosystem, on the protocol itself, or sorry, the application level as well. And if we can get better outcomes at the application level, and if network level, we shouldn't have a preference between what skill set is being paid out.
00:48:02.930 - 00:48:44.570, Speaker D: Yeah, that is a good point. I do think there's a valid criticism there that the set of people who are trying to, for example, liquidate will shrink, and that's not good. We lose some redundancy. I think that's a valid criticism. So as long as liquidations are occurring, it doesn't matter to me whether it's happening, because the fund that can price the token the best is winning rather than the most Optimized Bot. As long as they're happening very quickly or fast enough, probably they'll still happen even in the same block if they become available. I think that's okay.
00:48:44.570 - 00:48:56.700, Speaker D: I mean, as a Bot writer, I don't like it because I would rather get the money myself than have someone from a fund get it. But from a protocol design standpoint, I think that's an acceptable outcome.
00:48:57.680 - 00:49:29.850, Speaker B: Yeah. And one of the areas that I think would need to be thought about as well is how can this be abused potentially by the holder of the token? If you know that you're going to give yourself a window in which you're the only person who could liquidate a position? Can you do malicious things where you have a position that because you know you're going to get that leniency of an extra few blocks, are there bad things you can do as a result?
00:49:33.260 - 00:49:38.448, Speaker C: I mean, your personal positions can go under collateralized for some period of blocks.
00:49:38.644 - 00:50:09.344, Speaker B: Yeah. So there's value to that, and the fact that there's value to that. It might not be a bad thing, but it does become bad. If your position is underwater in a way that liquidating it, you don't get it back up over, and somebody else doesn't get a chance to liquidate it because you've then caused it to be under collateralized and it gets past that point where it's safe for the protocol.
00:50:09.472 - 00:50:58.950, Speaker D: Yeah. There's two things there. So it's important not to apply this to protocols that can't handle the two to ten block delay to begin with. We talked to Andre briefly about this, about using this in Keeper, and he said that even a few block delay would be too much for the purposes that people use Keeper for, so it wouldn't be a good solution there. But I think there's one question of, like, does the protocol work in general if these actions are not performed immediately? Like, if they can't wait two to ten blocks? But then a subtle difference to that is, does it work well when there's exactly one player who has that two to ten block lead? Which is not something I thought about yet, so that's interesting.
00:51:01.080 - 00:51:43.510, Speaker B: Cool. Yeah. And I think the addition of downsides for the example Sasha brought this up. If I hold the NFT and don't take the opportunity, then I'm punished. We hadn't discussed that. I think that you're paying just like lost opportunity cost if you're not capturing the opportunities that are available to you, then you're kind of overpaying relative to somebody who does capture all the opportunities available to you. But if you're thinking of it more in the malicious sense, punish them because you assume they're being malicious if they don't capture opportunity, maybe there's some way to do that.
00:51:43.510 - 00:52:54.694, Speaker B: In my mind it's a little more important to figure out. Yeah, I'm not too worried about them missing it. I'm more about if there's a malicious thing here rather than trying to just punish them if they happen to miss an opportunity. I was going to say introduce this kind of randomness to this, maybe a way to help it. If there's a way where 10% of the opportunities are just like randomly made available to people other than the PR two holder, maybe that's a way to add resiliency and make sure there is some redundancy there. Because this works in the majority of cases reduces 90% of the spam, but 10% are still available. Is that enough to ensure there is some redundancy there with other people competing? Okay, if there aren't any other burning questions points, maybe we move into the risk section.
00:52:54.694 - 00:53:24.500, Speaker B: So I think as pointed out, the first question is directly tied to this concept. Starting to think about how much burden of minimizing mev do we want to place at the network level versus the contract application level. This proposal really tries to put it on the application level rather than the network level for at least a certain class of problems and so very interested in people's thoughts about what this might look like in the future.
00:53:34.330 - 00:54:19.190, Speaker E: One thing maybe to clarify here is I guess how do people see the responsibilities of the protocol from a social perspective? Because for example, it's obvious that if there's too much mev, like way too much mev for the protocol, I think things become very strange from a protocol design point of view. So clearly we don't want some absurd amount. So I guess at what level is it incumbent on apps and users to be good citizens versus does the protocol need to actively defend itself and how does the protocol defend itself against too much mev? Is it just by raising inflation? Is that the only way or are there other kind of routes?
00:54:22.410 - 00:54:42.640, Speaker B: Yeah, my hope is that part of the reason for putting it back into the value capture back into the protocol token itself, is that's the reason why even if they don't want to be good citizens, if it helps number go up for their own token and direct financial incentives to do so?
00:54:46.770 - 00:54:50.240, Speaker G: Sorry, Phil, could you repeat your question? I didn't catch all of that.
00:54:55.010 - 00:54:58.834, Speaker E: Did I have a question or whatever.
00:54:58.952 - 00:55:16.230, Speaker D: Just responded to it was more of like an open question about how much expectation is there from the community at large for protocols to make good design choices and not create too much mev?
00:55:16.650 - 00:55:55.380, Speaker E: Yeah, and I guess also from the layer one designers perspective, what is the responsibility of the protocol? If the responsibility of the protocol is to ensure its own stability, for example, if that's a goal, then I think that the protocol needs to reduce the amount of mev somehow. Maybe at the protocol layer or maybe through inflation. I don't know. I think those are two knobs. I don't have a real concrete question or answers. I'm just trying to throw some fuel on the fire because I don't even know how ethereum users see the role of ethereum in preventing these things. For example.
00:55:57.130 - 00:56:13.430, Speaker G: I would conjecture that raising the inflation rate is a compensation for mev and not a reduction. And also that in any ethereum like system it's not structurally possible to eliminate mev vectors.
00:56:15.550 - 00:56:33.150, Speaker D: Even this proposal doesn't remove the mev because the miner can still just censor the PRT holder's transaction for two to ten blocks and then capture the thing themselves. Yeah, this certainly isn't a full solution by any stretch.
00:56:35.410 - 00:56:52.360, Speaker E: Yeah, I think your latter point was very interesting and also probably the more controversial one of the two that in any ethereum like system it is not possible to reduce mev. Yeah, I wonder what people here think about that.
00:56:53.850 - 00:57:07.274, Speaker D: It rings intuitively true to me anytime you can get different results by transaction reordering. I mean, there's mev there, so I'm not entirely sure how to even approach the problem of eliminating it.
00:57:07.392 - 00:58:00.540, Speaker B: Actually, this may expose my ignorance here, but would love to jump to maybe question four here. So about the likelihood of advances in cryptographic techniques enabling a meaningful reduction in mev versus we're primarily talking about game theory and economic mechanism design, but using kind of zero knowledge proof, secure, multiparty computation type approaches more to Aztec or what Secret is claiming they can do and things like that. Are you able to hide enough information that it makes a lot until after the transaction has been validated that it enables you to eliminate a lot of this mev? I honestly don't know. Folks from some of those projects have proposed to me that it can, and so I would very much value the opinion of folks here.
00:58:06.490 - 00:59:23.950, Speaker G: Well, I guess this is kind of related to the claim that I just made. So I'll modify it slightly and say that it seems intuitively true that single block mev, single block capturable or extract, whatever the terminology we're using now is, can be forced into other modalities of extraction. But when I say it's not possible to reduce mev, I would say that changing the modality of extraction or the required modality of extraction is not equivalent to reducing or eliminating that mev. And secondarily, that it's not possible to construct any in protocol transaction fee scheme, transaction ordering scheme, or regardless of whether it's a game, theoretic or cryptographic construction, which is able to provide an incentive that's necessarily proportional to mev or a countervailing incentive that's necessarily proportional to mev. Because any incentive that is necessarily proportional to mev is by construction itself. Mev.
00:59:28.090 - 01:00:38.090, Speaker E: Yeah, so I think I intuitively agree with all that and I have the same guesses and I think to use the, I guess industry terms like leaking a little research alpha, I think there is a fascinating impossibility result that might be possible there. But I wonder what other people think. Cryptographically, I'd say there's certainly things we can do. Like you can slow down the propagation of information or you can prove that you knew something before some period of time, things like that. And I think in certain cases you can maybe argue that that changes the extraction process. I haven't seen any convincing reduction proposals that don't do, I guess, one of two things, which is either restructure the protocol that is exposing the mev, which I think is a useful direction to think about, but that we can't force people to do that, or by kind of permissioning some aspects of the mev like CryptoKitties did. So one of the limitations, like mev is kind of intended to be this permissionless metric of value.
01:00:38.090 - 01:01:03.980, Speaker E: You can obviously always permission that and get rid of it. But I mean, you might not even be reducing mev in that case if you're permissioning it to someone who could possibly be the miner or could be cooperating with the miner, which in a permissionless network is most people or everybody. So probably unless you trust an identity system, you can't even do it that way.
01:01:06.290 - 01:01:40.790, Speaker B: Let's just KYC all users, problem solved. Okay, so what I'm getting from this and tell me this is the wrong conclusion is that the general consensus is that you can't likely eliminate mev through purely cryptographic means or even likely make a big dent in it. Is that what I'm hearing?
01:01:42.170 - 01:02:29.606, Speaker D: My gut says that I agree with Phil and Charlie, that my gut says it would not surprise me at all if there were impossibility proofs. In fact, I would like that because then I can stop thinking of at least theoretical solutions to this. That being said, that wouldn't necessarily rule out practical things that could make it computationally very difficult for people to extract. You could imagine something like ethereum but running on, let's say you have like fully homomorphic encryption and you can't see anything. All you can do is check the value of your own account. Sure, it's still possible to extract value there, but that's going to be very difficult. So yeah, there might be practical solutions that can get us through.
01:02:29.606 - 01:02:44.300, Speaker D: But yeah, it would not surprise me if there is an impossibility result because again, anytime you get different results from reordering transactions, there's mev there and I just don't know how to get rid of that.
01:02:45.790 - 01:03:46.814, Speaker E: Yeah, I think worth noting that I think we all are everyone who's spoken at least. And maybe if anyone here doesn't agree, you should jump in right after I'm done, and that would be really cool. But I think we all agree on this point. I do think there are people who don't agree. So I know Re, Jules and Co, for example, are of the opinion and as part of the chainlink fair servicing kind of effort, are of the opinion that if you could make the order more fair, that would, in practice lead to less profitability of things like sniping which could possibly reduce mev if not from maybe some theoretical standpoints. In practice with the way the economics play out there will just be less of a profit case for the Mev. But I think that's an open question and I would love to I don't know if anyone here is on the call who understands or shares a deep insight into that viewpoint, so maybe I'll issue an open call.
01:03:46.814 - 01:03:50.420, Speaker E: But it would be cool to get some perspectives like that at some point too.
01:03:51.830 - 01:04:36.654, Speaker B: Yes, cool. Absent someone speaking up right now, let's say that there's not anybody on this call who wants to make the counterpoint here, but I think that is a place where I'm personally interested to hear what the counterargument would be. So maybe slightly different topic, actually. Let's go to number two. I don't know if people saw the announcement. I assume most of it did about like one inch now, I guess routing transactions directly to these mining pools to try to stop them from being front.
01:04:36.692 - 01:04:37.280, Speaker D: Run.
01:04:39.330 - 01:04:51.080, Speaker B: Is that near to midterm? Should all high volume front ends be doing this? Is that like a good hygiene thing that they should all start doing?
01:04:52.970 - 01:05:22.280, Speaker C: Well, I don't think that one inch yet has 100% penetration. So when you use these front running resistant places, the trade off, right now at least, is mining confirmation time, which especially for very volatile markets, that might not be worth it, especially if you have tight spread requirements, you know? Yeah.
01:05:23.930 - 01:05:42.180, Speaker B: So just quickly to counter this point, I recently used Tai Chi network several times, and my transactions confirmed almost instantly, almost faster than if I broadcasted them directly to mempool, which totally surprised me.
01:05:43.750 - 01:05:45.940, Speaker C: How many data points do you have for that?
01:05:47.190 - 01:05:51.810, Speaker B: Only two so far, but I'll have more this Friday.
01:05:53.270 - 01:06:05.160, Speaker C: I'd be very interested to know what those tradeoffs are because I don't think that the Tai Chi network is forwarding transactions outside of Spark pool, but maybe they are. Does anybody know the answer to that?
01:06:08.170 - 01:06:10.038, Speaker B: Their website says no.
01:06:10.204 - 01:06:15.660, Speaker D: Yeah, it'd be really easy to detect if they were. We just need more data.
01:06:22.000 - 01:07:05.770, Speaker B: Okay. Not a very interesting question, I guess. Okay, so this one from Trent was what would be the impact if we start seeing more of the kind of traditional financial markets infrastructure make its way into crypto? Right. If we do start seeing, like, payment for order flow type setups with wallets or interfaces, those have proven to be something that is very commonly used in traditional financial markets, will we start to see some of these intermediaries finding various ways to extract the value within our decentralized infrastructure as well?
01:07:09.660 - 01:07:38.790, Speaker E: Yeah, I think from my perspective, this is one of the things that worried me the most about mev early on, is its potential to create asymmetries between sophisticated actors and everyone else in crypto. So I worry a lot about that. I wonder what everyone else thinks. How do we feel about advancements in these fronts, I guess, and Flashbot's role, I guess, in how this is going to play out in the future.
01:07:50.750 - 01:08:58.430, Speaker B: I think payment for order flow has the potential to be equally detrimental to, let's say, user trade execution price that your more prototypical mev or mempole sniping might be, depending on how quickly the order flow is routed. Right. To make kind of a devil's advocate argument. Isn't it inevitable, though, because there is so much money being made from it? At some point, as crypto continues to grow, and as there's more and more money essentially being left on the table, by not doing that, won't there ultimately be enough incentive that people are going to are going to companies are going to start doing this to their users? Regardless of what we think ethically should be the right thing? Because clearly when you start having billions of dollars in the line, this infrastructure gets built. And I would say it's not necessarily clear that it's always going to be a net negative.
01:08:58.510 - 01:08:58.802, Speaker D: Right?
01:08:58.856 - 01:09:47.870, Speaker B: So look at Robinhood. Right? I would say minus their shutting down and what that does to their traders when they can't trade during those times. I would say in general, felist trading has been a net positive for a large swath of traders and so there are some positive aspects to payment for order flow that exist. So similarly, we could envision a future where payment for order flow happens that's then used to subsidize or eliminate gas fees for the users.
01:09:51.110 - 01:10:24.140, Speaker E: Yeah, I think that's the analog, and I think an interesting question is how would it be different from payment for order flow in traditional markets? Will there be any extra transparency or is it kind of exactly the same thing and there's no difference at all? And how does the, I guess, geodistributed nature of cryptocurrency versus sending information to a single exchange server, how does that change kind of order flow dynamics or does it not also change it at all?
01:10:34.480 - 01:11:03.030, Speaker B: Yeah, it's interesting because the distributed nature, it feels like at the very least we're talking about additional players in the mix where whoever's paying for that waterflow is then also tapping into kind of private transaction submission services for various mining pools and addressing things that way. So it feels like at the very least, there's like an extra player in the process.
01:11:07.030 - 01:11:23.100, Speaker E: Yeah, so I think we all share this view, at least at Flashbots. Oh, I see Alex raised a hand, so maybe I'll pass it to him. But I think, yeah, we all kind of share this view that it's inevitable and that's why we're building the tools we're building I guess.
01:11:30.330 - 01:12:14.226, Speaker H: Yeah, I mean I just have a very brief comment. This is Alex here because I think number three relates to my question on number five. Just that to the extent that there is capturable value that intermediaries can take advantage of and that value can be concentrated in such a way that it becomes economically rational to regulate them or to use those as regulated points and the relationships with miners as regulated points right. You increase the risk of basically turning validators or the parties that direct closely interact with them into easy regulated targets.
01:12:14.258 - 01:12:14.454, Speaker B: Right.
01:12:14.492 - 01:13:41.550, Speaker H: Easy targets for regulators in law. I think that this sort of speaks to a broader point. Maybe that the available value, right, the MAV maximum extractable value and this sort of issue of related issue of payment for order flow are probably inevitable. But I do think that the way in which it is handled and distributed is going to have a material impact potentially on how these practices are viewed from a legal standpoint. In other words, if it's very hard to aggregate and capture a lot of the mev in one way, shape or form, it becomes very hard to sort of point to individuals or entities that look like rational regulatory targets. Imposing regulation on entities that cannot extract enough value to pay for the compliance functionally doesn't work and as a practical matter doesn't really happen very often. But if you are ending up within a scenario where a combination of, say, traditional financial actors coming in, working with large miners or mining pools or something like that to capture a lot of this value and incidentally create the sort of consumer risks that are present in things like payment for order flow.
01:13:41.550 - 01:14:43.380, Speaker H: I think that really creates or increases the risk that you're going to draw regulators attention to that layer of activity. And conversely, to the extent this is very ethereal discussion thus far, so I'm sort of dragging it into the mud as lawyers want to. But this is a problem that might be helped if the tool sets and solutions to mev and to this capture of value are highly diffuse, right. If they encourage a lot of distributed value capture rather than concentrated value capture, it just as a practical matter becomes much, much harder in my opinion to assert regulatory control over them, right? It just doesn't work. The enforcement apparatus doesn't line up with it very well. Lawmakers and regulators tend not to like rules that they can't practically enforce. So sort of maybe a minor note at this stage for the more ethereal problems that are being addressed and discussed here, but I do think that.
01:14:45.130 - 01:14:45.494, Speaker B: All.
01:14:45.532 - 01:14:55.030, Speaker H: Other things been equal solutions that encourage sort of diffusion or decentralization of mev capture or related activities are probably going to be better for these. Systems.
01:14:58.410 - 01:15:49.500, Speaker B: One thing that is interesting to note is just like I as a retail trader in the traditional stock market it's impossible for me to actually take ownership and interact with an exchange as opposed to a Dex. I can go and interact personally with that Dex and know what's occurring. Right, to some extent. And you bring up this interesting point of this layer of these validators or whatever being this point of potential regulation. I think it'll be contrasted with traditional finance in that I as an individual can still go and interact with these DEXes myself.
01:15:50.190 - 01:15:54.860, Speaker E: So it's just interesting that.
01:15:56.990 - 01:16:48.460, Speaker H: I mean, I think that difference points to a really promising opportunity, right? Which is and I'm going to paraphrase the CFTC here, I think the regulators can imagine, or at least the US ones can imagine, a world in which they regulate market activity rather than market actors. Blockchains make that a lot easier. Right. It's fairly straightforward for them even in a synonymous way to look at the market in a live fashion and see what's going on or if there are sort of systemic problems occurring. But they are only going to do that if they think it's easier or necessary. Right. So if you can construct these systems one in a way that they are in a sort of self regulatory way, that they are more naturally transparent than traditional financial know, reinforcing what they already are now, right to Brock's point, you can directly interact with the Dex in a way that you cannot interact with.
01:16:48.460 - 01:17:22.600, Speaker H: Know, the more you reinforce that point, the less likely it is that the policy concerns sort of come into play. Right, so I think you're right and in general solutions that reinforce sort of decentralization diffusion and also transparency on these processes, right. Even if there is mev being captured or bribes being paid to miners, if everyone understands that and sees that up front without regulators occurring or sort of waiting in, it makes it a lot easier for them to resist the urge to do so, basically.
01:17:24.250 - 01:17:24.566, Speaker D: Yeah.
01:17:24.588 - 01:19:23.950, Speaker B: And actually I want to make again almost like a philosophical point here for us to consider is the infrastructure that we're building here to help solve mev or kind of improve the functioning of the network by having mev be less harmful? However we want to phrase it, if in doing so we might also create infrastructure that makes it easier to then censor or enforce regulations on various actors on chain. And for a practical example of how some of this stuff can be co opted in the kind of bitcoin ecosystem, remember back in 2014 era that there was I think BIP 70 was a proposal for basically communication between a payer customer and a merchant to have better communication between them and pass information back and forth, kind of external to the network. It's just kind of like a channel between the two to communicate and make sure there's no man in the middle attack. There was then a group of companies that exchanges essentially that were looking at saying hey, can we actually modify this protocol and use it as a way of introducing travel rule compliance to be able to exchange effectively KYC information between wallets of these exchanges to comply with the travel rule. I don't think it ever actually moved forward, at least didn't as far as I'm aware. But that's a very concrete example of designing something at the protocol layer, thinking about trying to make better UX for everybody and then it potentially getting co opted for enforcement of regulations.
01:19:28.130 - 01:19:44.660, Speaker H: Yeah, I think that's a really important point, right? To the extent that you are creating tools and systems that look like and resemble the systems that regulators are used to, they will try to fit it into their framework and the funds travel rule is a really good example of that and particularly timely again now.
01:19:48.250 - 01:20:56.762, Speaker E: Yeah, I think those are all very valid and deep points. I guess I would say that I see our role as an organization to be in some ways responsible for trying to influence the story arcs here and the various possible applications of this tech both in terms of user impacts and regulation and things like that. And from that perspective, I think my proposal, my straw man proposal is that we all kind of do our best to stay educated and aware of these issues and stay engaged. So thank you all for being here right before the holidays. Also side note, really appreciate that because you know, we need to almost form an ideological like I used the word bulwark when I was talking to Alex a while ago and he liked it, so I'll use it again. But like a defense system against both these economic trends and also kind of to make sure that regulatory trends are in the favor of cryptocurrency and us as a community. I don't think all regulation is necessarily a bad thing.
01:20:56.762 - 01:21:29.830, Speaker E: It may be the case that regulation is what causes miners to think more carefully about extracting mev and actually leads to something good down the line because we architect kind of the funds distribution to be more resilient because of possible regulation. So those are all open questions I just want to put out or open, I guess goals and ideals for this organization and curious to hear how other people see their role, our role, the intersection there, et cetera.
01:21:46.170 - 01:21:48.710, Speaker B: Everyone wants to fully abdicate all responsibility.
01:21:50.190 - 01:21:54.410, Speaker E: Great dictatorship model. No, I'm just kidding.
01:22:00.440 - 01:22:30.540, Speaker B: Cool. I think we managed to at least touch on all of these questions and I think got some pretty interesting insights here. Were there any final thoughts or questions folks wanted to raise? I think this is more or less the last agenda item. I don't know if we've got any kind of like housekeeping final items as well. Yeah, housekeeping. Let's do it.
01:22:31.250 - 01:23:42.210, Speaker A: Yeah, very simple so the recap of this video of our discussion will be posted on our GitHub and also we will post a video and a series on YouTube shortly later today, as well as, like right now, we're trying to figure out sending to a holiday season. The roads have been super fun and super insightful and interesting and engaging. We've been torn between whether you do it every two weeks, three to eight weeks, or monthly. So feel free to give suggestions in our Discord on how to make it better. We want to make it into essentially a town hall for folks who's actually doing interesting research and experimentation in the space to share your insights and ask your questions. And we also use this opportunity to share a very brief update on where Flashbots is as a project from research and engineering perspective. However, as we mentioned, everything can be found on our GitHub.
01:23:42.210 - 01:23:58.200, Speaker A: Yeah, and Alex, do you want to just make a couple announcements on the Medium post that we're rolling out and anything else that you would ask folks to chime in on?
01:23:59.790 - 01:24:52.262, Speaker B: I mean, you did a great job. We are going to release more content to make the subject of maximum extractable value and related topics clear to the general community as we've tried to do so with the initial posts we've released. And so stay tuned for some of that. Some of it will be explaining upcoming research. Some of it will be releasing some of the public tooling that we mentioned, for example, a dashboard that displays metrics related to minor extracted value that people can look at and people can track over time to get a better idea of the activity on chain that's happening related to that. So all of this is coming relatively soon in next weeks. And as Tina said, most of our activity is split between Discord and GitHub.
01:24:52.262 - 01:25:32.422, Speaker B: And so both of those are public and we really encourage you guys to participate there. On Discord, please ask any questions and participate in any channel. And on GitHub, look at the different repos, look at the issues currently open if you want to comment on any of them, as well as open your own issue. Cool. And as Dan just mentioned in the chat, the decks of the Protocol Rides token that they presented with Austin has been added to the roast agenda deck. Yeah. And then the next roast, as is mentioned here, we haven't announced yet who will be speaking, if anyone is interested in speaking.
01:25:32.422 - 01:25:47.098, Speaker B: As Tina mentioned, we have some people doing really interesting work on Mev, the guys from Block, Native and B Protocol. So maybe let us know if you'd be interested and yeah, that's pretty much it.
01:25:47.264 - 01:26:30.460, Speaker A: Yep. Oh, sorry, I forgot one more thing. We have three minutes and I actually would love to get all of the folks new first time to Mev Rose to just introduce yourself and your interest so that we know and also would invite all of you to join us in the research workshop tomorrow where we will share our flashbump research. So maybe I'll just call out folks, sorry Daniel, Barak and maybe Alex, you have better connection so maybe just ask one. I would love to learn more about you.
01:26:34.030 - 01:26:42.110, Speaker E: Hey, guys, I'm with Block native. Just listening in for now and interested in the mechanism design portions mainly.
01:26:46.930 - 01:26:50.350, Speaker A: Thank you. What about Eric? Eric Tierney.
01:26:52.130 - 01:26:58.500, Speaker B: Hey I'm Eric. I'm over at Circle. I'm just mostly listening and found this stuff pretty interesting.
01:27:02.550 - 01:27:30.004, Speaker A: Awesome. Thanks Sasha. If Sasha is not there yet, maybe Tessa. Tessa. Hi. I'm coming more from the trading side of things. So just listening in and learning about as much as I can about Nev and the mempool.
01:27:30.004 - 01:27:37.480, Speaker A: So that's basically it. Yaron?
01:27:39.900 - 01:28:19.780, Speaker B: Yeah. Hi, I'm Yaron from B Protocol. So we work on something similar to what Dan presented many to eliminate the competition layer in liquidations. We believe the competition and in particular is not only a risk to ethereum but risk to the actual lending platforms because eventually damage the liquidators. We are of course more of a commercial project. We are already live. We are kind of a second layer permissionless layer on top of maker dow already with $10 million of deposits.
01:28:19.780 - 01:28:27.590, Speaker B: And I actually would love to present at certain point in this forum. So.
01:28:45.000 - 01:28:46.390, Speaker E: Tina, are you still there?
01:28:48.940 - 01:29:02.910, Speaker A: Yeah, sorry, I have island connectivity. I think we're at time. So thank you everyone. Really great to meet all of our new friends and join us for the research workshop tomorrow and stay tuned for the next MEB rest.
01:29:04.480 - 01:29:22.436, Speaker B: And thanks to Dan and know leading leading this session masterfully. And Dan and Austin for presenting this great concept as well. I think it's given us a lot of things to think about. I'm going to rewatch this video as well and think about more questions. So thank you you.
01:29:22.618 - 01:29:30.390, Speaker E: Yeah, special thanks to you guys and thanks also to everyone who introduced themselves and came especially for the first time. See you guys next time.
01:29:31.960 - 01:29:35.520, Speaker B: Bye guys. See you later. Bye.
