00:00:00.720 - 00:00:30.306, Speaker A: There we go. All right, I made a quick slide show so that my face is not always the first thing you see on these videos. So hopefully that helps organize a bit. So welcome everybody. Thanks for joining the community call. Things we're going to talk about today. So on the agenda, updates to the network, an idea essentially for some validator education.
00:00:30.306 - 00:01:20.818, Speaker A: I'll talk a little bit about the thought behind that and hopefully solicit some feedback. And then finally a topic that is currently in Testnet, a feature proposal for the one sole minimum delegation. The feature proposal is currently happening on chain in Testnet and we are hoping to bring that feature proposal to Mainnet. So I want to have a discussion here. I know there's been some talk in a couple of different channels, mainly the vote one sole minimum delegation channel and just want to have, you know, a more live discussion instead of chat and see what we, we can come up with. So yeah, validator updates. So the recommended updates have changed or the recommended versions.
00:01:20.818 - 00:01:57.834, Speaker A: January 1038 is now recommended for Mainnet. 111 ten is now recommended for Testnet. You should ideally see a reduction in traffic on Testnet with 1110. There were some performance issues with the previous version on Testnet that were investigated by the engineering team and fixed. So thank you engineering team for looking into all that. Also want to say a special thanks to a few different validators that I reached out to and got logs from and got some help in debugging those issues. So thanks everyone out there who helped assist in that debugging effort.
00:01:57.834 - 00:03:07.650, Speaker A: Make sure you just sort of monitor your traffic there and check performance after this update, but should help fix those problems. Any question about the updates, anything people are curious about? Nope. Okay, cool. Okay, so education. I've been talking with Dan and others about this a little bit in the background. One thing we really want to do and really want to focus on at the foundation is making sure the validator community is strong and we have a really good knowledgeable set of operators going forward. I think we've got a pretty large amount of validators on Mainnet right now, and what we really want to focus on the most is quality, making sure that if there's performance issues, if there's things need to be investigated, if a restart happens, in the unfortunate event of restart, all of our validators are knowledgeable and able to handle that and responsive.
00:03:07.650 - 00:03:37.434, Speaker A: So with that in mind, one thing I'd like to work on is education for the community. And I'm thinking that can come in the form of calls that we do or some sort of educational series, but really want some feedback from you all about what you think is missing or if you're interested in teaching something, what you want to teach. So does anyone have ideas, thoughts or things that they are curious about?
00:03:44.454 - 00:04:02.684, Speaker B: No, but I've got a question. Have you thought about perhaps changing the delegation criteria to be more performance based so people that do want to improve their validators and their education can be moved up the list quicker?
00:04:03.664 - 00:04:40.665, Speaker A: Yeah, it's definitely something we've thought about a lot internally. The problem and the trickiness with any performance based criteria is that it's almost always gameable. So as soon as you make a metric, there are ways to potentially game that metric to get further up the list faster. So it's a really tricky thing to do well. But yes, long term that's something we want to move towards. Nothing happening in the near term, but yeah, in the long term I think that's something we want to be able.
00:04:40.689 - 00:04:58.914, Speaker B: To do that makes sense. It's also, I think part of the drive that you're suggesting is to move towards more quality, but we're not. Is quality been defined yet? If it, you know, is game able, like what exactly are we looking for the validators to be doing?
00:04:59.694 - 00:05:32.634, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, I think honestly what I just want to see is more engagement from the whole community. Right? Like I think MB validators and testnet validators is active, but it tends to be a smaller subset of the whole validator community. So anything that we can do to get people more, more active there, more active, creating resources, sharing resources, helping others, I think that would be great for everyone. But you're right, quality is a bit nebulous until we define metrics.
00:05:33.134 - 00:06:41.468, Speaker C: Yeah, some of the things we've been thinking about is doing some more, I'll say, active or adversarial testing work on testnet to basically like require force, like kind of the whole network to go through some unexpected circumstances or go through a certain exercise that's not a simple lift. And just given how lean a lot of our engineering team and the foundation team sort of operates, it's not something that we've really been able to really, really implement to date. Um, you know, but also to Tim's point, like, um, it's, it's hard to measure quality and it's hard to measure education level. Um, you know, some of these things like as a human you can, you know, see, you know, based on the level of discussion or questions, you know, you can make an assessment. Okay, does this validator kind of know their stuff or are they asking beginner level questions, you know, and it's hard to, you know, force education and decision making skills onto someone.
00:06:41.556 - 00:06:41.804, Speaker A: Right.
00:06:41.844 - 00:06:48.532, Speaker C: We can say, okay, the validator needs to have, you know, some, you know, good key practices.
00:06:48.588 - 00:06:48.756, Speaker A: Right?
00:06:48.780 - 00:08:23.896, Speaker C: Oh, you shouldn't use your withdrawal key as the same as the identity key, right on the vote account, you need to have a certain, you know, max state concentration in certain things or skip rate, et cetera. But, you know, the reality is, like, what happens when your node goes down in the middle of the night? What happens if there's some performance issues that pop up again on mainnet? Is the validator and is the community collectively equipped to act intelligently or not? To answer that, it's almost impossible to put a metric to say, yes, everyone is going to know exactly what happens and have, you know, their alarms go off in the night if the validator crashes or if, you know, there's an emergency update on the network or something like that. So, like, we want to make better resources and help validators. Like, I really believe a lot of our, you know, lesser experienced validators are interested in performing better. It's just there isn't a great funnel, you know, or body of content for someone to say, okay, sure, I can run the command line stuff, and here's how I start the validator. But, like, as a human, okay, what are the other considerations and what are the best practices? Things like that. That really, I think a lot of people who've been around for a while have learned in this kind of trial by fire and have a lot of knowledge, but it's not easily distributed to the community.
00:08:23.896 - 00:08:28.324, Speaker C: And so this is kind of something that we just want to make more accessible to more people.
00:08:31.384 - 00:08:52.728, Speaker D: That's a good idea. Dan, the one thought or the one example that comes to me is that actually tomorrow we're all going to be faced with extreme amounts of UDP traffic on our TPU ports because there's going to be a whole bunch of NFT folks that are drinking shoes and going for ute's.
00:08:52.896 - 00:08:53.604, Speaker A: And.
00:08:55.344 - 00:09:32.826, Speaker D: It'S going to be interesting. And we've already prepared my validator that we've already got scripts in place. If we need to throw up tight quality of service rules on that port, we can, even if it gets to an emergency state where I feel like we need to break the glass and actually block traffic on the port temporarily, that would only be an emergency. But that's an example to go to your point of a skillset that everybody kind of needs to know. You need to know how to manage QoS filters on your firewall. So. Yeah, good point.
00:09:32.826 - 00:09:34.374, Speaker D: We could do more of that.
00:09:37.234 - 00:10:34.174, Speaker A: Yeah. One thing I'd add anecdotally, kind of go to Dan's point, is that Ella and I, a little while back, did a KYC check through the delegators. And while we did that, a lot of issues that came up again and again when we talked to these random people that we KyC was just a lack of knowledge, but not really a lack of wanting to learn, just more like they. The resources they didn't find quite as accessible or they just hadn't taken the time yet. And they just really needed a more kind of polished way of learning those things. So I think education like this can be really beneficial for a lot of people who, you know, maybe haven't, haven't quite gotten into the details of the docs yet or haven't, haven't been through a restart or whatever the case may be. Any other thoughts on educational ideas, things people want to teach?
00:10:36.034 - 00:11:20.454, Speaker B: I would love the idea of, you know, a bi weekly or weekly call for new validators because I'm probably two months now and getting all of that initial knowledge, you have to pull it from tons of different sources, but there's like a couple questions that you may not understand, which is like, super common knowledge that somebody can answer in an instant. But, yeah, it takes you 4 hours. So having someone available for you to talk to is. Would be really nice, because sometimes if you ask a stupid question on discord, you might get pushback and some would say, go read ten years worth of history of discord to answer your question, where calls tend to be more friendly and you can ask, you know, easier questions, perhaps, and. And just having those resources, I think that actually pretty awesome.
00:11:21.554 - 00:11:45.942, Speaker A: Yeah. Yeah. I think that would essentially be the idea behind this education series. Right. Like, have some topic that we talk about, whether it be monitoring or restarts or whatever is the topic of the day, and then at the end, have time for Q and A, bring up problems, issues that you're facing, and be able to talk about it as a group. So, yeah, I think that's a great idea. Thanks, Tim.
00:11:45.942 - 00:12:16.164, Speaker A: Yeah. Cool. All right, well, that sounds good. I'll come up with some ideas, come up with a plan, and then share it out and see what people think. All right, let me go back to the presentation. 1 second. There we go.
00:12:16.164 - 00:13:12.246, Speaker A: Okay. Switching gears a little bit, I want to talk about the one sole minimum delegation feature proposal. A couple bullet points I want to hit. So, first of all, the feature proposal is currently happening right now on chain on Testnet. This will only affect testnet currently, so please, please, please, if you have a testnet validator, look into it and vote for it. If you're in favor, we need 67% of SPL tokens that are outstanding to be transferred to a wallet by Monday at this time. Specifically in order for the feature to be enabled on chain again, the reason for this feature, if you've missed it before, is that at every epoch boundary rewards need to be calculated, and the total number of stake accounts that are delegated currently is impacting the performance of that rewards calculation.
00:13:12.246 - 00:14:31.164, Speaker A: So leaders in the beginning of an epoch are missing slots because of this reward calculation going too long. So anything we can do to help limit that calculation time going forward, limit the growth of the amount of time that calculation takes, the better Brooks, who I think was on the call before, did some investigation into why we have such a large number of delegation accounts. And when he did the investigation, he saw that 91% of the accounts had less than one soul in it. So if we can require the number of counts or the accounts going forward to have one soul or more, ideally we'd limit some of this growth. So that's the basic idea behind the proposal, is to limit the rate of growth of stake accounts at the same time that proposal is happening on Testnet and then in the future on main net. There's also an investigation of long term how can we solve this problem so that it doesn't impact epoch boundaries? We could potentially spread that calculation out throughout the epoch, but that's a more longer term fix. The shorter term fix that we want to get in as soon as possible is limiting this to only delegations that are one sole or more.
00:14:31.984 - 00:15:08.634, Speaker C: I just want to make a quick clarifying remark. One, I think there's a correction in the chat. It wasn't 91%, it was sounds like 67%. Brooks had some errors in the original reporting, and the proposal at this time is delegation amount minimum. It's not actually a stake account balance minimum. So you could, you know, if this proposal passes, you can still create a stake account with less than one sol, you can create a pretty, basically as slow as I think the rent exempt balance plus one lamport. You just wouldn't be able to delegate it.
00:15:08.634 - 00:15:12.274, Speaker C: I think there was discussion.
00:15:13.974 - 00:15:14.382, Speaker A: And this.
00:15:14.398 - 00:15:16.622, Speaker C: Would be a really a separate conversation.
00:15:16.678 - 00:15:17.274, Speaker A: But.
00:15:19.304 - 00:15:30.084, Speaker C: A potential future proposal for a minimum balance for stake accounts themselves. But that's not what we're talking about here. It's just a delegation amount.
00:15:32.184 - 00:16:04.234, Speaker A: Yep. Thank you, Dan. Yeah, so I wanted to open this up and just get other voices in on this discussion. It seemed like there's a lot of chatter in the channel there, the vote one sole minimum delegation discord channel, but it's mainly among three or four people. So just wanted to first of all make everyone aware of this feature proposal, and then secondly, open it up for discussion if people have any thoughts. So any thoughts?
00:16:07.774 - 00:16:50.458, Speaker D: Hey again, Tim, I think you might have undersold the importance of this. This is super important, right? Because what's happening is the number of forks that are getting thrown at the start of each new epoch are taking quite a bit of time for validators to finally process the forks and get them resolved and get the route advancing into the new epoch. We're talking minutes. I think the last time around it was maybe one and a half minutes to get that process done. That's not good. This is really important. I think the solution that you've got is a good one.
00:16:50.458 - 00:17:19.716, Speaker D: It's a great idea. It may not be the only solution in the end, it might be a part of it, but it's an excellent place to start. In my mind I could actually see this then also driving more of the smaller investors into the stake bowls. So it might be good for the stake pools too. I'd be curious to hear from those guys as well. But I personally, I like the idea. I do think it's super important that we get this resolved and get it resolved quickly.
00:17:19.716 - 00:17:21.144, Speaker D: So thanks.
00:17:21.724 - 00:17:39.276, Speaker A: Yeah, thanks for that input. Yeah, I agree. I mean, I think that this isn't the long term final solution, but this is the solution that we can get on mainnet quickly within month. And I think anything we can do to help help those epoch boundaries be a little bit more performant, the better.
00:17:39.460 - 00:18:05.164, Speaker D: Exactly. Yeah, yeah. And I know labs is working on some different solutions for these calculations, but some of those actually include deferring the payouts for even another epoch, and that also takes some time and discussion to think about that. This feels like something that we can do quickly, like you said, and that will at least the problem will stop getting worse, right? It can start to get better.
00:18:05.244 - 00:18:52.712, Speaker A: So, yeah. Okay. Any other thoughts, questions on that? No. All right, well, we're pretty early on time. Is there anything else anyone wants to raise or ask? All right, chat seems quiet. Thank you, Dan, for the links. There's a question about when we can see the proposal in Mainnet.
00:18:52.712 - 00:19:31.740, Speaker A: So the plan from labs right now is to get the proposal passed on test first, do sort of a dry run on testnet make sure that enabling the feature doesn't have any bugs. Everything goes correctly. Once that happens on Testnet, we can follow with the mainnet feature proposal. So the testnet vote is set to end this Monday. Hopefully that vote passes. Then as soon as the next epoch on Mainnet, we can start the feature proposal. Did not know that.
00:19:31.740 - 00:19:56.344, Speaker A: Thank you folks. So apparently we also need 111 on main net, so that that's a little bit further out. Cool. All right, well, sounds like there's no other questions. Thank you everybody. And please remember to vote on Testnet if you got a testnet delegator. All right, see you all next time.
00:19:56.344 - 00:20:00.044, Speaker A: Thanks Tim. Thanks everybody. Thanks.
