00:00:00.570 - 00:00:26.374, Speaker A: All right, cool. All right, everyone, so welcome back to the celestial core dev call. This is core depth call. Six on the agenda. We'll do the roll call working group update, then we're going to go over the cips. So first we'll start off with our roll call from the consensus side. Evan, decor app team.
00:00:26.374 - 00:00:27.030, Speaker A: Hello.
00:00:27.100 - 00:00:28.040, Speaker B: I'm here.
00:00:28.810 - 00:00:33.480, Speaker A: Hey. From strange love. I believe Alex is here.
00:00:35.770 - 00:00:37.942, Speaker B: Yep, I'm here also.
00:00:37.996 - 00:00:44.380, Speaker A: Good to see you guys. Welcome. From the IBC team. I think Susanna is here.
00:00:45.310 - 00:00:47.180, Speaker C: Yeah, I'm here. Hello.
00:00:47.870 - 00:01:01.182, Speaker A: Awesome. I don't know if anyone from binary builder is here. I could be wrong. But if you are, please speak up. That's fine. Let's move to informal. I think Ethan is here.
00:01:01.316 - 00:01:02.160, Speaker B: Hey, guys.
00:01:04.470 - 00:01:41.600, Speaker A: From the DA side, we got celestial node. I think Wondertown is here. Hey. And we got Iger as well from. All right, so for working group updates, I can try to fill in. From what I do know, I think from the DA working group, wonder ten, either we're going to talk about CIP Schwab, but I don't know if there's anything else you want to share with the group. I don't think there any.
00:01:41.600 - 00:01:59.330, Speaker A: Okay. Do you guys have anyone who attended the interface working group? Any kind of update about the work? Swing there, because I know that Callum and Evan are talking about adding new things for the interface, even if there's no CIP. Do you guys have any updates from that meeting?
00:02:01.110 - 00:02:07.750, Speaker D: We do have. They're not substantial.
00:02:08.410 - 00:02:09.160, Speaker A: We.
00:02:10.970 - 00:02:26.300, Speaker D: Decided that column will work on the CRC on drop documents that he will share with us for view column. Correct me if I'm wrong. You're right.
00:02:29.230 - 00:03:00.294, Speaker A: Sounds good. And then update from the ZK working group. So far, the ZK working group, they have a call later today. They already submitted a CIP and we kind of gave feedback on the CIP because it was more about adding a library to the code base versus adding a specification. So we're going to talk about it in the upcoming ZK working group call in, I think, 2 hours from now. All right. With that said, let's kick it off.
00:03:00.294 - 00:03:36.646, Speaker A: We'll start with Lemongrass. And based on Lemongrass, we'll talk about, I guess, CIP ten and 16. And then after that we'll talk to Ming pay, who's joining us, talk about CIP 14. And finally, wondertime will talk about Schwab, which we haven't merged yet and we haven't assigned a number to. But I think this one's going to be 18, if I'm not mistaken. Anyway, let's go over Lemongrass and where we're at so far. Maybe, Evan, you can kick it off.
00:03:36.646 - 00:03:40.540, Speaker A: I think there was some kind of discussion about CFP. Yeah, go ahead.
00:03:41.310 - 00:04:23.160, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, there's not been really any real changes since the last core devs call, so we're sort of like. The lemongrass hard fork is blocked on getting the rest of the think. I think we're still blocked on ICA, on determining the two things for ICA and then the coordinated upgrades to be abundantly cautious. We're still implementing that, and I don't think that there's going to be any changes. But we could hold off on progressing with CIP ten if we wanted to be abundantly cautious. Other than that, I don't think that there's any other changes. It's blocked by the five cips that are included there.
00:04:24.090 - 00:04:44.030, Speaker A: Okay, so. Sounds good. CIP ten, you want to proceed under status of it is currently in review. Satisfying. There's no last call yet. Let's see. Do you guys want to cover CIP 14, given some of the authors are here about the latest status on CIP 14?
00:04:47.010 - 00:05:03.300, Speaker E: Yeah, I kind of overheard that it was blocked, but stride already responded on the forum post. I think they just need to translate that into the SIP, basically the list of allowed messages, and then we can move this SiP from draft to, like, in review.
00:05:04.730 - 00:05:05.478, Speaker A: Okay.
00:05:05.644 - 00:05:06.950, Speaker E: Does that seem reasonable?
00:05:08.090 - 00:05:18.040, Speaker A: Yeah. Susanna, are you guys going to plan on updating the CIP 14 based on.
00:05:19.770 - 00:05:27.770, Speaker C: I didn't get a chance to look at it in the past couple of weeks, but I will get a chance to do it now. Like, not traveling and not on holiday.
00:05:28.930 - 00:05:53.720, Speaker A: Sounds good. All right, so CIP 14 just needs to be updated with feedback from the core and app team. And after that, if it's ready for review, just make a pull request with the changes and just update the status to review. And then on the core and app team also will give it a review, and anyone else is more than welcome to review it.
00:05:54.890 - 00:06:01.750, Speaker B: Question for ruthful. That was feedback from stride, right? Not from coronapp or is it from both teams?
00:06:02.810 - 00:06:33.986, Speaker E: I guess there was just basically more discussion on the forum post because this sip was a little bit ambiguous on the allowed messages. So after a little bit of back and forth on the forum post, we kind of, at least on the forum post, came to agreement on what the allowed messages should be. But those are on the forum post, not in the SIP. So I guess if we want to review this sip in isolation, without the context of the forum post, we could copy over the allowed messages into the sip and then move it into review. That's what I was trying to say.
00:06:34.168 - 00:07:04.598, Speaker A: Yeah. Thank you. Cool. Okay, so I think, you know, the action item here. Just do review what's on the foreign post, all the feedback on what to update, and then Susannah and her team, like the stripe team, will also update it and then update the status after that to review. And the current app team can review it after. Okay, so looks like lemongrass.
00:07:04.598 - 00:08:01.530, Speaker A: Okay, five proposals, one of them still needs testing, which is CIP ten and then CIP 14. I guess after the updates to the CIP, we can continue reviewing of it and decide what it included in the upcoming lemongrass hardwork. For the timeline of the lemongrass hardwork, it will depend on the implementation and what it decided to be added to the spec. Currently it's still in draft, so some of these specifications can be removed given that it's still draft about what to include in it. And yeah, let's see how it progresses with CIP ten and 14 before we decide whether to add them to lemongrass or remove them. And then we can work out like a timeline for hard work activation moving forward. Okay, so we cover CIP 1710, I think 14 word Dica CIP 16.
00:08:01.530 - 00:08:18.260, Speaker A: It makes security related governance parameters immutable. And this one is submitted by Ming Pai. Cow. Forgive me if I'm butchering your name, feel free to correct me, but if you like to go over the proposal, feel free to do that right now.
00:08:19.430 - 00:09:22.710, Speaker F: Hello from Hong Kong. I would like to talk about this proposal because at first I would like to say that this proposal requires CIP 13 and we can consider this CIP as a supplement of the CIP 13. In the CIP 13, the global parameters such as from the Cosmos SDK and the modular specific parameters will be governed on chain. But I noticed that there is inconstant in the description of the CIP 13. It's about the max efficient duration of the evidence parameters. The description states that these parameters should equal to the unbolding time, which is 21 days for the celestia. And the evidence is submitted by the node who find the other set of behaviors such as double signing the blocks will be offline to the validator.
00:09:22.710 - 00:10:33.130, Speaker F: That's why this is a can of security related assume. If we allow these parameters on China governance, there could be advice ISO on chain governance proposal changing these parameters, for example, changing the max duration of the evidence value very small. So the slicing mechanism for the validator is not effective, which means the validator will not be punished by the double signing behaviors. I would like to provide two support data points for this proposal. The first is osysmosis, which is the exchange for the cosmos. In the design of the osysmos, the parameters of the max duration evidence equals to the unbounding period, which is 14 days for that. Another is one of the CCS 23 distinguished world paper, which is analyzing the deposed takeo over attack happened on torn blockchain.
00:10:33.130 - 00:10:57.320, Speaker F: The root cause is that the attacker control the on chain governance and pass advisor proposal to make a profit. So that's why I proposed this proposal to make these parameters immotable for the on chain governance. So that's it. Thanks.
00:11:00.170 - 00:11:10.060, Speaker A: Yeah, thank you for going over the proposal. I'll let the core and app team or any of the people on the consensus layer give any kind of comments or feedback. So far.
00:11:17.070 - 00:11:51.240, Speaker B: Really well written. And the only potential question is, I think there's more general live stream around. You want to remove more than remove quite a few of the on chain parameters. Like some of them. I guess you can start with this one or something. Or we could either we just start with these three, or we make a more holistic approach and decide look at all the parameters that should be removed, if that makes sense.
00:11:57.470 - 00:12:19.970, Speaker A: Sounds good. So I think the feedback so far been like, this is a great starting point. And we can use that as a template for future one that we want to. I guess the word I'm looking for is immutable. Make the governance parameter immutable, so they can't be modified anymore via on chain governance. Anyone else? Rutul maybe, or Callum or Evan?
00:12:21.430 - 00:12:41.660, Speaker E: Yeah, I kind of second that. This is really well written and also goes in line with, I think what we've been thinking about on some of the parameters that are currently governance modifiable. It not totally making a lot of sense for them to remain governance modifiable. So yeah, that's really all I have to say.
00:12:42.750 - 00:12:43.900, Speaker A: Sounds good.
00:12:45.070 - 00:13:31.690, Speaker G: I will just note, I think the max age numb blocks is set a little bit low. Actually opened this as a security issue, but it's since been publicized by the comet security team. But it turns out it's not actually a problem because there's basically an or between those two values. But currently the max agent on blocks is set based on expected block time of, I think 15 seconds. Blocks are coming a little bit faster. So that instead of being 21 days is actually more like 18 or something. So it's just something we might want to fix before making those non changeable by governance.
00:13:31.690 - 00:13:48.990, Speaker G: And also we should probably make them just over 21 days just to ensure there's the right amount of time to submit.
00:13:54.050 - 00:14:56.550, Speaker A: It. Sounds good, I guess the kind of feedback that maybe we can add to the forum post, or maybe if it's something, if it's more like an implementation kind of detail, it's more for the core and app team to keep in mind if they choose to go with this proposal. I guess for next steps here, given that it's still in draft, Mingpei, maybe you can update it to review status, because I think the general feedback had been that it's very well written and stuff. So maybe move it to review status and maybe in two weeks time we'll determine if it's something the Cordette would want to implement, whether it's part of the lemongrass hard fork or future hard fork and stuff. But I'm kind of curious, what would be the timeline, Evan or Callum, realistically speaking, on implementation of this proposal, if it gets above consensus.
00:14:58.250 - 00:15:19.680, Speaker B: The implementation is pretty straightforward. Unfortunately, it's more so just making sure that we go through, like what Mustafa said is that we go through and find everything. If there were any other remaining parameters that shouldn't be changed. And like Ethan said, we also need to correct some of the times as well.
00:15:26.050 - 00:15:28.526, Speaker A: Okay, that sounds good.
00:15:28.708 - 00:15:32.740, Speaker B: So for a concrete number, it wouldn't take long to implement. It would be like a week.
00:15:33.590 - 00:15:45.590, Speaker E: Okay. I have a thought though. Can we adopt this sip without doing the holistic approach or like going and revisiting all the other parameters? It seems like that would blow the scope.
00:15:49.050 - 00:15:55.240, Speaker B: I think it makes sense just to start with this without needing to explore all our priorities test.
00:15:55.610 - 00:15:57.020, Speaker E: Okay, I agree.
00:15:58.190 - 00:15:59.260, Speaker B: Sounds good.
00:16:01.310 - 00:16:30.114, Speaker A: Okay, so it sounds like everyone aligned on just going forward with the sip without necessarily doing the holistic approach. So, Mingpei, I think for your next step, just update your CIP with. Just change the status from draft to reviews to market for review. People will give it one more review and then hopefully in two weeks time you can attend the call again and we'll try to get a rough consensus of moving it to last call.
00:16:30.152 - 00:16:33.540, Speaker F: Okay, I'll finish as soon as possible. Thank you.
00:16:34.310 - 00:16:54.726, Speaker A: Well, thank you for writing the CIP. We appreciate it. All right, let's move on. So this one doesn't have a number. I think this is going to be 18, because there might be issue with the other one. That's 18 when you talk to the ZK working group. But this is CIP Schwap by clip clip.
00:16:54.726 - 00:16:58.140, Speaker A: You want to kick it off? Sure.
00:17:00.030 - 00:18:31.100, Speaker D: So, hello, everyone. I'm clip, I'm out of this cap. It's the first networking SAP I think, in our cap repo and in short it's a messaging framework for data will be PTP network that aims to solve critical inefficiency and standardized messaging between the multiple client implementation of the network. DCIP describes pretty well motivation behind it. We have an issue with excessive round trips on the network when you do sampling, and this SAP aims that problem and as well as it defines a messaging framework for so called share containers and share identifiers. So the data square of Celestia has multiple more abstract data types based on the atomic primitive called share, which includes blobs, rows, namespace data and so forth. And this AP defines a way of thinking about all these share groups in containers and special identifiers for them that allows you to exchange and swap these messages around the network for various purposes and needs.
00:18:31.100 - 00:19:06.040, Speaker D: One of them is particularly sampling. The sampling and the reconstruction are out of scope of this cap and are a matter of further saps. So this solely purpose on this low level framework and that's it. If you have any more questions or want to learn more, I'm inviting you to read it up and discuss it on our forum post.
00:19:09.050 - 00:19:29.920, Speaker A: Sounds good. And I guess if people want to be more involved on the data availability working group they can reach out to Ramin as well. Or just message me and I'll connect you to remain if you want to be glib. If I'm not mistaken, this is a result of the DA working group kind of work soon, right?
00:19:33.170 - 00:19:44.500, Speaker D: Kind of like on a border? The work on the Schwab started slightly before the DA working group, but I think DA working group kind of observed it, so you can say so.
00:19:45.350 - 00:20:11.740, Speaker A: Awesome. All right, this sounds good. Does anyone have any feedback or comment on Schwab? I think, how would this be activated? Again, I think there was conversation about that glib, but is that more on the DA node side, upgrading to the new version that has swap and migrating all the DA node to the new binary? Or how would that work?
00:20:12.830 - 00:21:09.230, Speaker D: So we discussed pretty thoroughly how to strategize around the upgrades. And this is PDP network 48, which is easier to update and it doesn't have consensus breaking changes. Okay, but you still need to think of that. And we decided against doing any backwards compatible changes in the code itself to support the old protocol. And we decided to abandon the old protocol completely and do the transitioning through the infrastructure. So there will be old and new infrastructure for both versions of protocol running at the same time for a while, and once we know that the majority has migrated, we will cut the old info off and fully rely on a new protocol.
00:21:10.290 - 00:21:49.039, Speaker A: Okay, that sounds good. So it sounded like, okay, it's more on the DA side and it's not backward compatible. And then the migration will still maintain as a community both network like both binaries, the old binary and the new binary, until we have sufficient people upgraded to the new binary and then the celestial node team will stop support for the older binaries. Okay, exactly. That sounds good. Anyone has any questions or feedback, it's still in pull request. If you guys can't find it, you can probably find it on the agenda ticket, but we'll merge it hopefully by today and we'll assign a number to it.
00:21:49.039 - 00:22:02.240, Speaker A: It'll probably be CIP 18. And yeah, if there's no more other discussion topic, we can probably end it early. But feel free to let me know if you guys want to talk about anything else.
00:22:06.370 - 00:22:07.120, Speaker F: Yeah.
00:22:10.530 - 00:22:15.026, Speaker B: Is there anything, any help that you need from the strange love team or do the core devs have it.
00:22:15.048 - 00:22:26.050, Speaker A: On their own for CIP nine, if I remember. Okay, that's the packet for. And this one went to final status. I would leave that question to Callum, Evan and Rutul.
00:22:30.620 - 00:22:54.256, Speaker E: Yeah, I can respond. So Nina already started working on this, so we have like a draft pr up on Celestia app. She's out right now, so I feel like when she gets back she's going to continue working on it. I can share you a link after this if you want to review it, make sure that we're adopting it correctly. But yeah, I think we're mostly good to go.
00:22:54.438 - 00:23:08.272, Speaker B: Oh, sure, that'd be helpful. Thank you. Yeah, I can also take around GitHub and then also we are still dependent on the ICA hosts one. I guess we'll just follow up in the forum. Conversations on the forum.
00:23:08.336 - 00:23:14.688, Speaker A: Yeah, let's see. So CIP nine dependent on CIP.
00:23:14.864 - 00:23:23.112, Speaker B: No, CIP nine isn't. It's just our role. Trains product is dependent on 1412.
00:23:23.166 - 00:23:26.170, Speaker A: Is dependent on 14. Right.
00:23:28.400 - 00:23:31.420, Speaker B: But we'll continue the conversation in the forum post. That's fine.
00:23:31.570 - 00:23:32.270, Speaker A: Okay.
00:23:34.640 - 00:24:07.210, Speaker C: Yeah, on the vip 14 last, like two weeks ago we were discussing whether to add in the controller or not as well. And then I guess on the forum the existing proposal is just for hosts, but yeah, then there's been no, I guess. Should I just write a comment on the forum as well to ask if we should add in controller or not?
00:24:09.260 - 00:24:17.320, Speaker A: Yeah, if you want to. But also at the same time you got Evan Callum in tool gear, so maybe you can get feedback also directly.
00:24:20.400 - 00:24:33.840, Speaker E: My thinking based on the last messages from stride on that forum post was that this SIp only concerns itself with the host portion, and so the SIP explicitly doesn't enable the controller portion.
00:24:35.620 - 00:25:23.890, Speaker C: Yeah, I guess the only reason I'm asking is because I guess the protocol is specified already in the IBC specifications repo. But if you wanted to just keep the concerns separated, that's also fine because it would just be like, for instance, in this CIP there's already elements that I just copy and pasted in. And I guess Aidan wasn't in the last call. I realized he commented on the posting. Right now it is just concerned with hosts, but there was like the open question at the end of the last celestia call as to whether we should expand the scope or not.
00:25:27.170 - 00:25:30.798, Speaker E: Right, I remember that, yeah, sorry, I.
00:25:30.804 - 00:25:46.260, Speaker D: Was just going to say that I think we're sort of waiting on demand for the use of control. So if someone comes with us saying hey, here's a use case that we want for Celestia that we think is providing a lot of value, then sure we will do it, but it seems unnecessary to enable it when we haven't actually got a use case yet.
00:25:46.870 - 00:25:48.260, Speaker C: Okay, got it.
00:25:48.710 - 00:26:04.220, Speaker D: We just want to keep the default is to try keep the state machine as minimal as possible. And then when actual requests come in for something and it seems like it's going to provide value for the network, then I think that makes sense to add it.
00:26:05.390 - 00:26:19.540, Speaker A: Cool. All right, sounds good. Any other discussion items that we haven't covered or any other thing you guys want to cover?
00:26:22.710 - 00:27:33.020, Speaker G: I had a general request for CIP authors, which is that we try to more clearly early in the CIP, state what the parameters are, if any, so that we can easily also update CIP 13, which tracks all of the sort of global parameters and which will also need to be updated for the lemongrass hard fork. So presumably with lemongrass we have to go through each CIP and see what all the new parameter changes are going to be. And so if we want to be able to keep 13 easily up to date, it would help a lot for each CIP. A lot of the cips, they do mention parameters like throughout, but we haven't really standardized a format for them. So it would just be great to, if you could make a table in this form towards the top of the CIP under the specification section that just includes the parameters that CIP will introduce, and most of them do introduce new parameters that'll just help a lot for keeping 13 up to date and tracking things.
00:27:34.590 - 00:29:11.800, Speaker A: Yeah, I agree. Also, given that it's in draft, I'm probably going to move it to review status because the aim of this one is to become a living document, kind of like CIP one, because we always going to continuously update it and it's a reflection of the main net parameters. So yeah, I'll just update the status to review so people can review it as well for CIP 13. But yeah, that's really good feedback. I think we should always try to make sure that in the specification what parameters are being changed is pretty clear and if it gets activated on main net, we'll update CIP 13 to reflect up to date parameters. All right, any other comments or feedback? I think we should be good to go. I think for the next call there might be a few added CIP from the ZK working group and there might be another proposal from the interface working group if there's a CIP being written at the moment, and then Schwab will have a number, and then we can start tracking it within the CIP process, and then we can revisit the ICA CIP status and the hardcore upgrade mechanism status and decide if we want to finalize lemongrass for review before we go proceed with the hard work.
00:29:11.800 - 00:29:35.840, Speaker A: With that said, thank you all for coming. There's been a very productive meeting. And thank you also Minkpai for joining us. If you can make it next week, if you're in the telegram group, you'll get the information about the next call and yeah, thank you everyone for coming, and I'll talk to you all in two weeks.
00:29:36.850 - 00:29:37.920, Speaker B: Thanks all.
00:29:38.530 - 00:29:39.450, Speaker A: See you all. Bye.
