00:00:00.920 - 00:00:12.830, Speaker A: It might have to go back to review status because there might not be enough rough consensus. But we can go over the foreign posts if you guys like. Unless there's something specific in CIP twelve that you guys want to talk about.
00:00:12.862 - 00:00:29.314, Speaker B: Well, no, I think the CIP twelve can still stay in last call or even go to finalization. As far as I understand, it's just the CIP 17 for including it. Which hard fork will it be included in? Is DVD?
00:00:30.174 - 00:00:54.314, Speaker C: Okay, I have just one thought on that. I really like the SIP. It's just that the SIP still has, like, boilerplate text for security considerations. So that's what this forum post is actually trying to bail out. I think that ZiP needs, like, an actually fleshed out security consideration section before it goes to last call, final call, whatever.
00:00:55.824 - 00:01:22.004, Speaker A: So, yeah, sounds good. So it sounds like you can't go to last call because you have some security consideration that you want them to update in the CIP. So it should be moved back to review. Address the feedback that you have in the forum post on moving the boilerplate text for security consideration. Adapt your feedback, and then we should move it back to law school.
00:01:23.824 - 00:01:25.164, Speaker C: Yeah, that works for me.
00:01:27.464 - 00:01:47.312, Speaker A: Okay. No, I mean, the only thing. My only feedback is to let the author CIP notice, I guess. I mean, you already captured in the foreign post, but maybe we can ping the authors as well about the status because they're not on the call.
00:01:47.488 - 00:01:52.944, Speaker C: Yeah, I think, Susanna, we could bring it up maybe in the next all core devs.
00:01:53.924 - 00:02:27.154, Speaker A: Cool. All right, so CIP twelve will move it back to view status, and the decision for that is being captured by the foreign post, the forum post itself, by ritual. If there's any other thing to cover, maybe we can move on to the next item, which is funding the audits, I believe. I think, Evan, you're the one who wrote that one, but if there's other things to cover before that, we can talk about that.
00:02:28.374 - 00:02:30.166, Speaker B: As far as funding the audits, this.
00:02:30.190 - 00:02:31.766, Speaker A: Was just sort of forum post to.
00:02:31.790 - 00:03:17.114, Speaker B: Sort of gauge interest on submitting a governance proposal, to have a community pool spend the details on where exactly those funds would go or who would control them or who would do the audits and how. How much they would cost is still, like, something that we need to discuss and can do. Async, in this forum post, there might not be a lot of interest or there might not be interest for other chains. It just seems like since these two pieces of software are going to be adopted by so many different chains and provide, like, a lot of value, it's sort of like feels like a good use for community funds. It's a very well defined scope. The outcome is like very concrete and measurable. So yeah, that's about it.
00:03:24.454 - 00:04:36.984, Speaker A: Yeah, that sounds good. I think maybe sharing that information more widely, like maybe a tweet or sharing it in the CDC channel about this foreign post, and maybe some people have proposals for auditing it would be helpful. We don't really necessarily capture anything related to community pool proposal in the CDC call, but I think at least the conversation around it relating to SCip and it being audited is relevant for the call. All right, I don't know if there's more topics to cover in CIP twelve and the update. I think the action item is to move it back to review and state the reason being which will wrote in the foreign posts, have them update it, the authors update it, and then we'll move it back to last call once it satisfies the core devs. If there's nothing else, we can cover any updates to CIP 19?
00:04:41.764 - 00:04:42.904, Speaker D: Okay, cool.
00:04:43.564 - 00:05:27.614, Speaker E: Since last call there were two updates. One of them was addition of a new container type. That's pretty formal change that allows you to request whole ideas. Previously it wasn't possible, or was possible only through rows. Besides, there was also a review from John Adler that I incorporated all his suggestions into the spec. And yes, these are the two changes and I believe we can move this CIP to the next status. I guess.
00:05:30.954 - 00:05:49.344, Speaker A: Yeah. So to move it to last call it would require rough consensus from the core dev, given that this is related to the data availability and you're one of the main core devs on the DA layer, I'm assuming from the DA working group, you guys already have a consensus on moving this forward, right?
00:05:50.684 - 00:06:02.500, Speaker F: Yeah, kind of. I wasn't aware of the EDS new type, but it shouldn't be anything big information.
00:06:02.612 - 00:06:23.218, Speaker E: The UDS type is not related to your workstream, so you can please review it still and subscribe to updates on the CIP replacement. But it won't attach your light node implementation. It's very specific to the node.
00:06:23.386 - 00:06:29.146, Speaker F: Yeah, yeah, I skimmed it quickly before the call. And yeah, it's minor.
00:06:29.210 - 00:06:30.454, Speaker D: Okay, so you was aware.
00:06:34.314 - 00:06:50.584, Speaker A: I guess maybe the follow up question, given that either maintaining another version of the client wonder ten, you're saying that it wouldn't apply to their workstream or I mean, it wouldn't apply to their client design per se.
00:06:52.164 - 00:07:22.964, Speaker E: So this framework allows you to define multiple ids and containers for various types, and it's optional and clients can implement whatever they need for their own use cases and currently focuses on the light node side of things. And light nodes do not need to sync the whole eds. So this is why they don't need that piece.
00:07:25.744 - 00:07:39.064, Speaker F: Yes. To add more to this. The binary representation should be compatible even though. Even if we didn't even touch this EdS container type.
00:07:40.644 - 00:07:41.424, Speaker G: Yeah.
00:07:44.164 - 00:08:12.974, Speaker A: Okay, sounds good. Okay, cool. We're going to move it to last call then two weeks from now. It should be final. Then like two week period for last call. And during the last call period, if anything comes up, you guys can feel free to bring it up and stuff. Then we can.
00:08:12.974 - 00:08:56.896, Speaker A: If there's any kind of thing that hasn't been addressed, we can cover that and then move it to the right status, whether it's forward or back to review. But I think that should be it. Update the status to last call and add two week review period. Me or one of the editors can do that and we can revisit. And the other one is moving CIP twelve back to review based on ritual comments. Okay. I don't think there's any other topics to discuss other than like, I guess, Evan.
00:08:56.896 - 00:09:04.924, Speaker A: Do you guys want to talk about any kind of updates to the timeline for lemongrass? I know there's like new context added, but I don't know it's relevant.
00:09:06.464 - 00:09:11.644, Speaker B: I don't. I'm not aware of any changes since the last call, but I'll defer to ritual on that one.
00:09:14.504 - 00:09:37.364, Speaker C: We have like a ten. We have tentative dates for a planned audit, which is the middle of May to the middle of June. So we're trying to finalize the pieces that are going to go into v two as soon as possible. That way we can, you know, cut a release candidate that can get audited. That's the only big update on timeline wise.
00:09:38.384 - 00:09:55.204, Speaker A: Okay. In that case, I don't think there's any other thing to cover, but that sounds good. It's just the audit updates before we end. Anyone has any other item they want to cover on the call?
00:09:58.354 - 00:10:26.994, Speaker H: Yeah, I have one thing regarding Cip six. I can see a pull request for Cip six. They changed from it to change it from last goal to final. However, they're still open topic that's not discussed, which is what I propose in the forum, which is what the actual default minimum fee should be before, and that should be discussed before it moves to find or agreed upon before it moves final.
00:10:29.014 - 00:10:44.434, Speaker A: Yeah, that sounds good. Um, yeah, I see a pull request to move it to final. Um, but, um, yeah, an item that hasn't been covered. Um, we should totally address that. Let me just try to pull up the foreign posts.
00:10:46.634 - 00:10:49.654, Speaker G: It's my pull request so I will revert the change.
00:10:50.794 - 00:10:51.654, Speaker A: Okay.
00:10:56.594 - 00:11:02.934, Speaker D: How do we get consensus on this? Like how do we know when we happy with the initial value?
00:11:05.674 - 00:11:19.484, Speaker H: Well, I think it needs to be discussion. I prefer something so either people agree that it makes sense or they have a differing viewpoint in which case they should post on the forum what they think it should be instead and why.
00:11:21.384 - 00:11:27.604, Speaker D: Okay, let's give them a deadline until next call. I guess so in two weeks.
00:11:28.904 - 00:11:29.764, Speaker H: Okay.
00:11:31.704 - 00:11:44.084, Speaker A: I mean the call here is also like a forum to discuss it so you don't always necessarily have to wait two weeks until the next call. So if you guys want to talk about it now, it's like the perfect call for it.
00:11:45.144 - 00:12:48.708, Speaker H: Yeah, I mean I summarize what I said in the post which is that basically right now the minimum default, minimum gas price right now is set to what the full minimum is. But in my opinion until in the absence of AIP 1559 style pre adjustment mechanism you can't really put a minimum default price right now on how data availability should be priced. Like for example, even on ethereum the minimum price for blob data is one way free and then that's adjusted by IP 48 four four the adjustment mechanism. So my recommendation is just to set it at the minimum, which is 0.001 UTR. And right now that's basically the minimum because the mempool priority number right now is set with a scaling factor of a million. So any number below that, unless we change the mempool implementation any number below that would basically be rounded down to zero.
00:12:48.708 - 00:12:49.424, Speaker H: Anyway.
00:12:53.884 - 00:13:16.564, Speaker D: As extra context we'll still have the like individual node configured minimum b. So basically what happens if in v two when this comes into effect as the current local node minimum fee is I think 0.002 which would be higher than this number that will be the value set to get included into a nodes member.
00:13:17.584 - 00:13:23.884, Speaker H: Yeah that's fine, but that's, that's a local conflict. So like different validators can have like different parameters for that.
00:13:24.264 - 00:13:29.264, Speaker D: Yeah, I just wanted to inform other people that it still exists.
00:13:30.124 - 00:13:30.904, Speaker H: Yeah.
00:13:39.324 - 00:13:45.584, Speaker A: So is there an alignment on Mustafa's recommendations, Colin, from your side?
00:13:46.644 - 00:14:10.954, Speaker D: Yeah, I've got nothing. Again like nothing to collect it or criticize it. I think it's fair to just, it's basically starting it with it turned off and then when we feel like it's needed to be there because we feel that it's underpriced to some capacity or needs to be kept? Not really kept. Have a floor, then we can introduce it.
00:14:13.294 - 00:14:47.334, Speaker A: Yeah, that sounds good. In that case, the pull request will have to move back to, um, back to review status. Um, so we'll, we'll move it back to review status, um, until you guys implement the changes, uh, by mustafa, uh, recommendation. And then we'll, we should be good to go to finalize it.
00:14:49.194 - 00:14:52.534, Speaker D: Does final mean that it's been implemented or that it's been agreed upon?
00:14:53.204 - 00:15:15.140, Speaker A: It's been. No. Move it back to review. We'll take care of that. Update it with the, with the changes recommendation by Mustafa, and then we'll get it for another file call. This one will. It could last a week because it's already been, you know, in last call before, if you guys already align, and then it will just be final.
00:15:15.140 - 00:15:22.234, Speaker A: Final, not in terms of implemented, final in terms of the specifications that are there are currently agreed upon.
00:15:24.214 - 00:15:25.074, Speaker D: Okay.
00:15:26.334 - 00:15:43.834, Speaker A: And I think for. Yeah, Nina, for your pull requests, we can merge it as is, but we're just going to move it back to review status. So anything like this, we can always merge it. That's fine, because it's just like edit changes. And given that it'll be in review status, I think, you know, these changes are fine.
00:15:44.414 - 00:15:48.514, Speaker G: I would also want someone from core up team to take a look at it before we merge it.
00:15:49.004 - 00:15:50.784, Speaker A: Yeah. Cool. Cool.
00:15:51.124 - 00:15:51.500, Speaker G: Thanks.
00:15:51.532 - 00:16:19.544, Speaker A: Yes, no worries. All right, any other topics to cover? Cool. Feels like there's a few CIP en route, some are going back to review and some are moving ahead to last call. With that said, thank you, everyone, for coming to another core def call, and we'll talk to you all in two weeks time.
00:16:22.304 - 00:16:22.792, Speaker H: Take care.
00:16:22.808 - 00:16:23.336, Speaker C: Thanks.
00:16:23.480 - 00:16:24.760, Speaker A: See you. Bye.
00:16:24.912 - 00:16:25.584, Speaker H: Thank you. Bye.
