00:00:01.450 - 00:00:20.110, Speaker A: I think. No, I don't think I saw Suzanne on the call. Anyone from binary Builder? I don't know. Mark was on the call and informal. Ethan couldn't make it today anyways but we'll keep him pushed after from the DA side. Celestia node.
00:00:20.770 - 00:00:21.774, Speaker B: Yeah, I'm here.
00:00:21.812 - 00:00:27.350, Speaker A: Ramen from Ike. Welcome. And from Iger.
00:00:27.770 - 00:00:29.670, Speaker C: Hey, we are here with Mikoy.
00:00:30.330 - 00:00:50.522, Speaker A: Awesome. Welcome. So for updates on the working group, I think the biggest update is CIP four. ZK working group's call is tomorrow. They only had a kickoff call last week, two weeks ago. So I don't think they have much updates. And I think the interface working group, they have a call in a few weeks, two to three weeks.
00:00:50.522 - 00:01:21.320, Speaker A: So I don't think there's any updates from their side since the last call. But I think the biggest update is from the DA working group. Whereas CIP four is today going to go to final. And I think Renee, you might had a question for me about scoping out once it goes to final, how do you activate it and stuff within Celestinode and Iger? I think the client is called Lumina. Yeah, Lumina's, is that right?
00:01:22.650 - 00:01:42.000, Speaker D: Yeah. I mean the question was when we could ship it as a release. So we have the feature ready to implement the sampling window, at least for light clients or light nodes, and it's ready to go. So basically we can release it as soon as it's considered finalized, at least from the.
00:01:43.330 - 00:01:51.182, Speaker A: Sounds good. So today it will be considered final because today is the date, last call I think today the 7th. Right.
00:01:51.316 - 00:01:54.720, Speaker D: So is it fine technically to release after this call then?
00:01:55.250 - 00:02:41.930, Speaker A: Yeah, and then we'll make a pull request and stuff. What I'm trying to think about though is actually no, the 7th is tomorrow, but I don't think there's any feedback given that the DA working group is all aligned on this. The one feedback I would have is maybe on trying to capture everything that you guys are activating on the releases. So it sounds like CIP four is being included in a release. So maybe we can work on within the working group Ramin. Maybe there should be like a readme that says which cips are activated on the client and stuff and just like maybe just a bullet point or something so that's easier to track and stuff from the east working group. But it sounds like it's ready for release.
00:02:42.090 - 00:03:04.642, Speaker D: Yeah. So just to clarify, there's only a component of CIP four that's ready for release, which is the light node side of things which is implementing a window for light node sampling. The other side of the coin for CIP four is to allow full nodes to prune data that is beyond the sampling window.
00:03:04.786 - 00:03:06.134, Speaker A: Oh, I see.
00:03:06.332 - 00:03:08.650, Speaker D: It's kind of like a two part thing.
00:03:08.800 - 00:03:09.546, Speaker A: Got it.
00:03:09.648 - 00:03:23.680, Speaker D: So it's only partially implemented and partially ready for release. But we'll clarify obviously in the release notes what exactly is being changed and we can link it in a readme that's also fine.
00:03:24.130 - 00:03:56.406, Speaker A: Yeah, that sounds good. Maybe clarify Ramin and renee, I don't know if you guys have, because we talked about a repo for the DA working group, like just a simple readme file and links to notes and stuff. Maybe capture it within the readme file. Like maybe CIP four is partially implemented until later on when it becomes fully implemented. Just, it makes it easier for everyone to track, I think. But other than that, it all sounds fine. The other question I think was about releases related to testnet and not.
00:03:56.406 - 00:04:02.490, Speaker A: I don't have a strong opinion on that. I think whatever works best for both iger and solicitor node.
00:04:04.590 - 00:04:41.080, Speaker D: Yeah, I think I will mark for this release. We'll mark exactly what it's compatible with because this is a very subjective, like this release will be subjective, it's non breaking. So you upgrade to participate in the new behavior and therefore you can run it on any test network or any test network or even on mainet. But moving forward, if there is something breaking, then we will have to make notes in the release about what it's currently compatible with. Unless there's a better way to do this.
00:04:43.450 - 00:04:44.614, Speaker A: Okay, go ahead.
00:04:44.732 - 00:05:00.960, Speaker E: I have a comment about CIP four. In the reference implementation, this is storage node. If you scroll down to storage printing, it says that they discard data, discard stored data outside of the 30 day variable printer. But isn't it 30 days plus 1 hour?
00:05:02.690 - 00:05:04.000, Speaker D: It should be.
00:05:09.250 - 00:05:09.626, Speaker A: Update.
00:05:09.658 - 00:05:11.200, Speaker E: That sounds good.
00:05:14.790 - 00:05:39.800, Speaker A: Okay, Renee, for what you were mentioning before about releases and notes, I think it works fine for now. Maybe we can, like within the DA working group, maybe we can specify something different or if it needs to be. But I think for now this works. Yeah. Okay, cool. Exciting. The first CIP going to final.
00:05:39.800 - 00:05:56.234, Speaker A: Jacques, maybe we should start the PR so that we can merge it by tomorrow at least. We just have to update last call to final and we remove the last call deadline and yeah, we'll merge it tomorrow.
00:05:56.362 - 00:06:14.900, Speaker C: All right, sorry. Regarding the questions to Lumina. Yes, it's called Lumina. And yes, we are aware of CIP four, but we are still working on having Dasser, so no actual sampling yet. On our side. So we will only implement this after the Dasr, I think.
00:06:15.290 - 00:06:38.810, Speaker A: Awesome. Okay, cool. Well, I'm excited about using Lumina with Dasr. All right, so the next on the agenda, I think CIP six has been. It was first moved to last call, but then yesterday or today there was updates to it to add. I think it was a governance parameter. I think column is best to go over it.
00:06:38.810 - 00:06:51.200, Speaker A: So if you're updating something when it's in last call, it has to go back to review status because you're changing, adding to the specification. So, column, we don't have to go over CIP six, but maybe go over the changes you added and stuff.
00:06:52.950 - 00:06:54.370, Speaker B: I'll talk about this.
00:06:54.440 - 00:06:54.674, Speaker A: Okay.
00:06:54.712 - 00:08:07.666, Speaker B: Or, Evan, Internet isn't very good at the moment, although column is definitely leading this change. So the reason for adding the governance parameter is basically just to have a decently fast way to change the price enforcement. So, like the minimum fee, that's consensus critical in a decently quick way without having a hard fork. So the general social consensus so far has just been like, without some sort of mechanism that doesn't require a hard fork, or at least being able to, having the ability to avoid coordinating a hard fork, then this kind of changes, kind of DOA. That's the first part is that we have to add a governance parameter and then this change. In general, we're sort of deprioritizing or we haven't reached social consensus yet on what a good mechanism for the fee market would be, because we don't really have full blocks at the moment. So it's very difficult to actually gauge what would be a good mechanism.
00:08:07.666 - 00:08:55.030, Speaker B: Everything sort of feels like maybe a premature optimization. It's difficult to know which direction is to go, but this is like a very safe manual bet. It gets us a lot of the things that we want. We being royal, we here, and doesn't involve having a hard fork. It's very simple. And in the future, after blocks are filled, then I think we'll move towards something that's more like a normal fee market mechanism, something similar to EIP 1559, just in the sense that the minimum fee is dynamic and it's deterministic. It's not based on governance.
00:08:56.170 - 00:09:03.610, Speaker A: Okay, any feedback? Any questions to Evan about CFP six adding a governance parameter?
00:09:04.430 - 00:09:10.960, Speaker B: No, not from my end. It's good to know that once we have to go back to the review status, that makes total sense.
00:09:11.490 - 00:09:35.318, Speaker A: Okay, so let's keep the review status in case there's other folks might have feedback on this. But in my opinion, if you don't have any feedback by, I guess, next week or by the next call, we can start the last call. Move it to last call if you guys don't have any more feedback or changes you want to add to the specs. Cool.
00:09:35.404 - 00:09:36.360, Speaker B: Sounds good.
00:09:36.730 - 00:09:56.038, Speaker A: Awesome. All right. Exciting. Let's go to cip nine. So I just want to go over the ones in review status. So this is one by Alex Chen, the packet forward middleware. It's still in review status.
00:09:56.038 - 00:10:10.590, Speaker A: I just want to see if there's any updates on it. Are you guys good with what it is right now? Do you want to move it to last call so we can just get some reconciliation on moving it to last call or is it not ready, et cetera?
00:10:11.090 - 00:10:24.580, Speaker B: Yeah, I would love to move it to last call. Since the last meeting, there have been no new comments on the forum post. Seems like everyone's on board. Yeah, I would love to move this forward.
00:10:26.150 - 00:10:51.470, Speaker A: Sounds good. So I would need to get the abrupt consensus of the core dev, including, like, Evan speaking on behalf of corn app, because this will be going into corn app. So can we get some feedback from the core devs on moving this to last call? Moving it to last call means just like, so we can see that it's ready, at least for one final review before we make it like a final specs.
00:10:52.210 - 00:10:53.760, Speaker B: Yes, I think it's ready.
00:10:54.530 - 00:11:21.880, Speaker A: Cool. Awesome. All right, so CIP nine will move to last call. We'll put it for two week period with a period ending in two weeks, whether it's the Tuesday or Wednesday. I'll talk to you guys about this to work the end of the call, just to make sure that we. Because some people giving feedback that Tuesday may not even work at the timing and Wednesday was better. So we'll talk about that after.
00:11:21.880 - 00:11:49.760, Speaker A: Now let's move to CIP ten. That is coordinated network upgrade. Callum, I just wanted to get feedback on that. I don't know if there was any new changes added to it, but if not and it's still in the review status, that's fine. We can leave it as is until there's in case you guys are still specking out anything and stuff, but we can skip it. But just let me know if that's the case or not.
00:11:51.250 - 00:12:01.410, Speaker F: There is like one modification we're looking at doing, which is adding like a minimum height, like a buffer time before we can actually upgrade. So I think that's still being discussed. But apart from that, nothing else has changed.
00:12:02.550 - 00:12:11.720, Speaker A: Okay. And for the minimum height, is it added to the CIP ten or you plan on adding that once you guys have an idea on the design?
00:12:12.170 - 00:12:17.670, Speaker F: Yeah, we haven't yet talked about the design yet. Once we have an idea about that, we'll add it to the CIP likely.
00:12:19.310 - 00:12:38.320, Speaker A: All right, sounds good. So, yeah, just keep us posted. We'll keep it in review status for now. Coordinator, network upgrades. Let's move to CIP twelve. I don't believe the authors of CIP twelve are on this call, but feel free to correct me if I'm wrong. I don't know if Aditya is on the call.
00:12:38.320 - 00:14:04.866, Speaker A: If not, we can move ahead. Okay, sounds like it. Okay, so now that we covered stuff that are existing, one other thing that was kind of like, tricky for me personally, that I want to talk about with the group was in the example of CIP 15, where CIP 15. Let me all show you CIP 15. It was written by Rutul, basically to modify governance parameters for the memo field. So the one thing that came up when I was talking to Rutul was, it's very hard for us to integrate on chain governance processes with the CIP process, because the CIP process, as it is today, it doesn't take into account that, okay, if you modify an on chain governance parameter, there's still, there's a mechanic that happens on chain to actually activate it and stuff. So I wanted to share that kind of feedback with the group about what would be the long term kind of roadmap around on chain governance parameters and whether it makes more sense to have them be more like heartbreak activated versus on chain governance mechanic.
00:14:04.866 - 00:14:51.538, Speaker A: Because currently, as it is today, on chain governance and the voting, coin weighted voting mechanism is not scoped out within the CIP process. Right. Because the way we go about activating technical features is through rough consensus, not necessarily through token weighted or coin weighted voting. So I wanted to open it up for the group to have that kind of conversation about resolving on chain governance parameters which are not scoped out within the CIP process. Within the CIP process. Because otherwise it becomes kind of like very awkward. You have a process that exists outside the CIP process that anyone can use to modify on chain governance parameters without necessarily participating in the CIP process.
00:14:51.538 - 00:15:08.590, Speaker A: So, yeah, that question came up and I figured it's better if we have a conversation about it or just let you know that we're actually thinking about this a lot more. Any thoughts? Any feedback? Any opinions?
00:15:09.570 - 00:15:12.830, Speaker G: Was there a GitHub discussion about this somewhere?
00:15:13.650 - 00:15:21.540, Speaker A: No, there's no GitHub discussion. This is more like a high level. There's no specs to talk about when it comes to that. But yeah.
00:15:25.110 - 00:15:43.660, Speaker F: I guess there are some parameter changes which don't require much discussion. I'm just thinking about updating an IBC client, for example. So I guess most parameter changes we'd want to have in the forum part of a CIP, and then once that is approved, we then go forward with that on chain. But maybe not all of.
00:15:47.310 - 00:15:58.320, Speaker A: There'S that one came up about IBC related kind of governance parameters not necessarily needing a CIP process. And it makes sense.
00:16:03.810 - 00:17:15.480, Speaker B: Yeah, I think just to echo some of the sentiment that I've heard elsewhere, it's just that governance proposals are very separate, and token voting is very separate and still useful in some ways. So anyone can submit a proposal and anyone can vote on a proposal, and if for some reason social consensus disagrees with that, like it's a very contentious thing or whatever occurs, then, I mean, social consensus always wins out in the end, no matter what, like on any chain. So if social consensus really disagrees with a governance vote that gets passed, then I think it will have to handle that at that point in time. But I don't know, that's just what I've heard is that they're both very separate processes. Initially, I thought that it would be good to sort of just have one spot, but given since they're so separate and they do very different things, then I do think it makes sense to just keep them separate. In general.
00:17:17.210 - 00:17:31.210, Speaker F: I think this should be still discussed as a CIP and that, okay, it's still a proposal, and I guess it only really counts as being passed when it actually gets approved on chain. So it's dependent on votes.
00:17:35.070 - 00:17:36.878, Speaker B: So I think this was definitely a.
00:17:36.884 - 00:17:53.860, Speaker E: Misconception of the CIP process. Just to clarify, the original intention of the CIP process before premiernet was never that on chain proposals should go through the CIP process just to clarify what the original intention was.
00:17:58.270 - 00:18:24.900, Speaker A: Yeah, I think the awkwardness comes from the fact that on chain governance kind of takes over some scope within the CIP process, even if the CIP process doesn't take over on chain governance processes as a mechanic. So it becomes kind of like an awkward dynamic where on chain governance can take over some of the scope because of core related traps, even though it's not part of the CIP process.
00:18:28.260 - 00:18:42.360, Speaker F: I would be fine if on chain proposals were just on the forum. I just think they need at least one preferably canonical place that they can be discussed, that there can be some sort of like initial agreement on before they get proposed on chain. It doesn't have to be a CIP, but it needs to be somewhere.
00:18:45.820 - 00:20:39.660, Speaker A: Yeah. The one thing that kind of becomes awkward is, let's say everyone in the group, the core dev call all the core contributors, align on an activation or a feature modification for the blockchain that required on chain governance. But then the coin weighted voting mechanic that happens after doesn't align with what rough consensus aligns with, right? Because that's more like the network voting based on your coin weight, which might not necessarily have the best context on technical implementation per se. So that becomes like an awkward dynamic where you want to activate a change, and coin weighted voting doesn't align with it for any random reason. Right? So there has to be a way to figure out how to align them without necessarily maybe including. So what I'm trying to say, there's probably like several different approaches. You can take one, you can create a CIP that covers the entire on chain governance mechanic, right? And that will kind of like, it could be like CIP one, it becomes a living document, right? And it covers the entire mechanic of on chain governance mechanism or processes, right? The problem is still the same where even if you have a CIP, kind of like CIP 15 by your tool, where you're activating or modifying, maybe you have a range for a governance parameter and you're just modifying the value within that range that was scoped out, it would still probably, the coin weighted voting might not align with the outcome of rough consensus.
00:20:39.660 - 00:21:17.970, Speaker A: The other approach would be to slowly, potentially with the working group have governance parameters over time activated only via hard work if they need to be modified. So there's several approaches here. And the second approach is good in a way, because then slowly over time on chain governance parameters become included within the CIP process, because then they would only need to be activated via hardware. Any thoughts, any opinions on it?
00:21:22.260 - 00:22:16.500, Speaker H: Yeah, I feel like, I kind of like the second approach you just alluded to, because it's kind of a stepping stone where when we realize we need to modify a parameter, or rather a SIP wants to modify a parameter, then to implement the modification of that parameter, we can move the authority of modifying that parameter from token voting governance to the SIP process. And for parameters that are not super important or don't actually need to be changed frequently, or they can remain under the authority of token voting governance for now. So concretely, that's what SIP 15 was modified to do, is take those two parameters and move them from governance modifiable to governance unmodifiable and explicitly set via hard forks.
00:22:20.120 - 00:23:04.936, Speaker F: I do think that on chain governance software will move quicker generally than hard forking. And I do think, especially if we're trying to keep single binary syncs, there will eventually be a cost to having so many forks if we're just constantly doing it for every single parameter change. So I think we probably will still want to have some stuff that is governance changeable, especially in the case of some sort of like emergency where we want to change it quickly. And that's a very obvious change, and there will be general consensus around it. I also think it's generally hard to make CIP the authority. CIP is like a coordinating mechanism. The real authority in most upgrades are the validators.
00:23:04.936 - 00:23:29.540, Speaker F: It's about convincing the validators. Of course, we can always fork out the validators. In the extreme case there is some real turmoil, but it's up to the developers, which are themselves a small cabal of people, to convince the wider token holders that these changes are good. And so it should be on us to make sure that when a proposal is put forward, that all those token holders are aware of what the changes are and largely in agreement.
00:23:31.560 - 00:24:01.904, Speaker A: Yeah, okay, so a few points. I do want to avoid the word authority because I don't think that's the intention. It's more about scope. Right. So one has a different kind of scope than the other in terms of how the mechanic plays out when you activate changes on the blockchain. Right. I think for the, like callum, what you're saying about informing the token holders about different changes, I've done that a lot in the past.
00:24:01.904 - 00:25:35.914, Speaker A: When it comes to on chain governance parameters, most of the time they don't understand it, because a lot of times the people who come to these calls are like people who have a lot of context on blockchain development and design and how to contribute to core development. But the majority of people, you would have to distill it in a way that they would have to understand it, especially if it's like complicated terminology, or even if it's like, try to simplify it as much as possible so you can still inform them, but there's no guarantee that they will understand it, but they probably would vote anyways. So it becomes kind of like this weird thing where you have non engineers voting on engineering specifications and designs. One other example would be imagine if back in the days of the Internet, the design of HTTP by the IETF would require somebody like a shareholder in the Internet, but is not technical to vote on HTTP specification, which is kind of a weird mechanism, right? So we can still inform them. It's just like, I wouldn't expect them to fully understand it just based on previous experiences. Okay. I don't know if anyone else has any thought.
00:25:35.914 - 00:26:24.158, Speaker A: If not, we can move on to the next topic. I think the action item here is at the very least where folks are thinking about governance parameters, like on chain governance parameters, a lot more specifically because of the CIP 15 question. So there's probably going to be some kind of work related to either at least final line, the two in a way, or make it less awkward in the mechanism. So there's probably going to be more updates over that in the future calls. Moving on. The final topic is what we talked about last week, I think, or no, two weeks ago. We need to start scoping out for the upcoming hard work for Celestia Mainnet.
00:26:24.158 - 00:26:34.990, Speaker A: So so far, I think this is a question for Evan and column. What are the cips that are desirable for the next hard fork upgrade?
00:26:38.130 - 00:26:42.800, Speaker B: Pretty much those four right there. CIP six, CIP 910 and twelve.
00:26:43.570 - 00:27:04.390, Speaker A: Okay. And for CIP twelve, I believe for CIP twelve, we probably need to talk to the IBC team about it to see if it's ready to be like, if there's an implementation. I'm guessing there's an implementation elsewhere in a different network that can be.
00:27:04.540 - 00:27:07.240, Speaker B: Yeah, I would feel comfortable moving it to final.
00:27:10.350 - 00:27:31.520, Speaker A: It would still have to go for last call. We can move it to last call. I just need to talk to the team about it because the author ideally have to be here and champion their proposals, but we can help them steer it along. So it sounds like. As in these four, right?
00:27:32.610 - 00:27:33.360, Speaker F: Yes.
00:27:34.610 - 00:28:07.100, Speaker A: Cool. I would recommend, I think as a next step would be to scope out a meta cit with a name for the hard fork. We don't really need a date for now because it depends on the readiness of stuff and like a list of the cips, desired cips to be included, which are useful. It's going to be like straightforward. We can talk about it offline. I can share some example templates and stuff for that. And I think there'll have to be a name for the hard work coming up, which we can worry about later.
00:28:08.350 - 00:28:15.870, Speaker G: I think from the chat. CIP 14 will also be included there, but it's still in draft.
00:28:18.370 - 00:28:23.360, Speaker B: Yeah, good point. Yeah. We have 1014, 912 and six.
00:28:25.590 - 00:29:05.486, Speaker A: CIP 14 is also. This is the one for the ICA thing. Right. But is it complete? It looked like it needs test cases, but other than that. If the author adds test cases, we can move it to review and then last call. So it sounds like I need to talk to Susannah and team about 14 and I believe what was the other 112? 14 and twelve to see the status of that so we can accelerate it along, presuming that the implementation is there. All right, cool.
00:29:05.486 - 00:29:08.400, Speaker A: Anything else for hard fork stuff?
00:29:13.730 - 00:29:17.618, Speaker B: Sorry, I'm just curious what happens after last call you said that there's a.
00:29:17.624 - 00:30:11.582, Speaker A: Final two week period, so after last call, if there's no comments or feedback or the author don't want to, if there's no changes to the spec that they realize like, oh shit, I need to add this to the spec and stuff. It goes to final. Now, when it's final, it just means that the specifications that you wrote are final and it's been aligned on by the core devs, right? So then after it goes to final, then it's up to the core devs. When I talk about core dev, I mean those who are building the client. So if there's another client team as well that is adding those changes, they would have to implement those changes. Presuming we agree that those changes that are in the final status are required for the hard work. But there's other ways of activation.
00:30:11.582 - 00:30:31.420, Speaker A: Just because something final doesn't necessarily mean it's going to be added to our hard work. There's a lot of other details, like is the code ready? Has it been tested and stuff? But at least final what it means, it means that the specifications and the reference implementations are final. Like this is the correct way to add this feature and this is how do you do it and stuff.
00:30:33.630 - 00:30:34.860, Speaker B: Okay, thank you.
00:30:36.590 - 00:31:09.144, Speaker A: Sweet. Okay, so we still have like a bit of minute. I will make this short. So my question is, does Tuesdays work for everyone or do you prefer Wednesdays? Now be a good time for feedback. Either or both work. Anyone else?
00:31:09.342 - 00:31:13.210, Speaker G: I was thinking maybe is there a day that really doesn't work for people?
00:31:14.220 - 00:31:30.470, Speaker A: Yeah. Which day is worse, Wednesday or Tuesday? All right, I guess everyone's like, well, Tuesday is a little shy. Okay.
00:31:30.640 - 00:31:34.880, Speaker E: Because Wednesday we have no meeting day on, right?
00:31:36.770 - 00:32:14.940, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that point is fair. It's just that the CIP process is for. It also includes external core devs as well. And I think Wednesday because I think that's why the IBC team couldn't make it because it worked on Wednesday. Let's play around with Tuesday for another call and see if it works fine for everyone. So rock or care bear, can we schedule a call for two weeks? From now for Tuesday, and we'll call it core def call five. We'll create a ticket for it.
00:32:14.940 - 00:32:23.180, Speaker A: And Josh for anything that requires last call that we agreed on. The deadline should be Tuesday, two weeks from now.
00:32:24.430 - 00:32:25.930, Speaker G: Yes, the 20th.
00:32:26.830 - 00:32:42.258, Speaker A: Sweet. With that said. Well, thank you, everyone, for coming to another core dev call. Hope you guys enjoyed. And you, a lot of exciting stuff happening on Celestia, and, yeah, take care. Bye, everyone. Thanks.
00:32:42.258 - 00:32:43.010, Speaker A: Bye.
