00:00:00.250 - 00:00:04.160, Speaker A: Specify the hard fork. There is going to be a proposal we'll go over.
00:00:04.930 - 00:00:06.800, Speaker B: I think it's covered here.
00:00:07.570 - 00:00:11.086, Speaker A: No, it's not covered here. I need to add it as part.
00:00:11.108 - 00:00:18.160, Speaker B: Of the agenda, see, get them to review.
00:00:24.210 - 00:00:25.840, Speaker C: Oh, YouTube is live.
00:00:27.810 - 00:00:58.880, Speaker A: All right, so, yeah. Welcome, everyone, to cordev call five. This is Cordev call five for Celestia core development and the CIP process. And, yeah, we'll get started. So here on the agenda is first, we'll kick it off with a wall call. So anyone from the consensus team will kick it off with Coronap. Tommy, if you're present.
00:00:59.490 - 00:01:03.198, Speaker C: Hey, this is Evan. I'm here. Oh, and here, too.
00:01:03.284 - 00:01:09.140, Speaker A: Welcome, strangelove. Anyone from Strangelove here.
00:01:12.950 - 00:01:13.890, Speaker C: From Strange.
00:01:16.390 - 00:01:17.860, Speaker A: And IBC team?
00:01:18.550 - 00:01:20.770, Speaker D: Yeah, I'm here. Susanna.
00:01:21.750 - 00:01:32.214, Speaker A: Welcome, Susanna. Binary builders. I don't know if Marco is around. And then informal Ethan couldn't make it for this one because it conflicts with another meeting.
00:01:32.262 - 00:01:34.060, Speaker B: But we'll fix that for later.
00:01:34.510 - 00:01:43.514, Speaker A: For the DA working group, Celestia node. Anyone from Celestia node? Yeah, I'm here.
00:01:43.552 - 00:01:45.622, Speaker D: Raman and Renee.
00:01:45.766 - 00:01:47.680, Speaker C: And hello.
00:01:48.290 - 00:02:27.770, Speaker A: Welcome, welcome. And from. All right, so we'll kick it off with quick updates. Some of the teams might not have updates. Some are working on towards scoping out some stuff that will be more publicly available. So I think the major update from the DA working group is that CIP four is final and is actually activated on the latest release by celestial note. Is that correct? Not full printing, just the saunting.
00:02:27.770 - 00:02:56.740, Speaker A: Yeah, that is out. Yeah, I remember. And from updates from the interface working group, I believe there might be a new scope of work driven by Callum on gas price estimation, if I'm not mistaken. But it's going to be like they're going to have a next call about it so they can scope out that work and create a CIP process. But Callum, correct me if I'm wrong.
00:02:58.150 - 00:02:59.220, Speaker E: You're correct.
00:03:01.830 - 00:03:21.180, Speaker A: Amazing. From the ZK working group, I believe from the last meeting, they're working toward specifying a CIP. They do have a call tomorrow, so if anyone here is interested in joining that group, let me know. I'll talk to Zaki and Skip, who are driving it, and you can get added to the meeting. And finally.
00:03:22.110 - 00:03:24.202, Speaker B: Hold on, let me just refresh this.
00:03:24.256 - 00:04:02.860, Speaker A: Okay, so today, the packet forward middleware proposal by Alex Cheng is today the last day of the last call. So after this call, we're going to move it to final, so it becomes like a final spec. So congrats, Alex. It's moving to. And. Yeah, so that's the major update there? I believe so. There's three cips moving to last call or actually they're still in review state, so maybe we can get a quick status on if they should be moved to last call.
00:04:02.860 - 00:04:22.270, Speaker A: So the first one is minimum gas price enforcement by Callum. Callum, do you feel like it has sufficient review or are you guys ready to move it to last call or is there more work or more back feedback that you need to incorporate?
00:04:23.490 - 00:04:40.840, Speaker E: I think we've had a lot of discussion and I think we're kind of happy with where this is at for the moment until we see more sort of like, activity develop. I haven't really had any more reviews, so I think it's good to move into final call.
00:04:42.490 - 00:04:44.120, Speaker A: All right, sounds good.
00:04:47.690 - 00:04:48.440, Speaker B: Okay.
00:04:51.290 - 00:04:53.090, Speaker A: I think I need to add CIP.
00:04:53.170 - 00:04:55.906, Speaker B: 14 to the agenda in draft stage.
00:04:55.938 - 00:04:58.920, Speaker A: But let me just like jumping around.
00:05:03.290 - 00:05:20.110, Speaker B: I it CIP 14 update comment and then if we go back here and we refresh. All right, we got CIP 14.
00:05:20.450 - 00:05:45.340, Speaker A: Okay. So now that Callum, if you guys are happy with it in the current review status, you want to move it to last call currently, if that's okay with the core nap theme, given they maintained a client, if there's rough consensus, we can move it to last call with a review period ending in two weeks time. Does that work for everyone?
00:05:47.070 - 00:05:49.340, Speaker C: Yeah, sounds good to me.
00:05:52.030 - 00:06:30.920, Speaker A: Cool. Josh, if you're around, maybe we'll do it after the meeting. We'll just create a pr, move it to last call review. I think I'm going to move it for Wednesday in two weeks time rather than Tuesday because Tuesdays don't seem ideal for folks and I get why. Okay, so CIP six is going to move to last call. CIP ten, coordinated network upgrades. Callum, what's the status on this one? Are you getting some feedback? Are you guys finalized? Is there anything that you guys are exploring or is it ready for one final review before we make it a final spec?
00:06:33.290 - 00:06:50.880, Speaker E: There was just one thing that we wanted to discuss, which is about adding a minimum height with which only afterwards we braid. And we've decided not to involve that into the protocol itself because of the amount of overhead required. So that's actually been moved out of that. And so now they're. For a while now.
00:06:53.890 - 00:07:14.280, Speaker A: Okay. I would recommend maybe adding a reference implementation if there's any link to existing code to it before moving it to last call. So if you guys have it somewhere, maybe a link to the issue, just highlight just like a high level reference implementation, how it will work. I think that'll be fine.
00:07:14.650 - 00:07:16.406, Speaker E: Yeah, sounds good.
00:07:16.508 - 00:07:56.050, Speaker A: All right, cool. Yeah. So once you make that pull request, feel free to notify me and then we'll move it to last call after. Next one is CIP twelve by their incentivization middleware by Susanna, Aditya. Do you guys feel like it had sufficient review? I think it's pretty well documented and it's using an existing specification that's been tested before. Susanna, are you guys comfortable moving it to last call with a two week review period?
00:07:56.710 - 00:07:57.780, Speaker D: Yeah, definitely.
00:08:00.410 - 00:08:04.550, Speaker A: And do we get rough consensus from the coronapte and core devs?
00:08:05.930 - 00:08:07.000, Speaker C: Sounds good.
00:08:08.170 - 00:08:08.920, Speaker B: Cool.
00:08:11.210 - 00:08:39.390, Speaker A: All right, we're going to move this to last call. Two week review time after the call. All right. Before I go to CIP 17, we'll do CIP 14. So I just need to review it, really. I think I just want to see the missing section. If there's no test cases available or needed, I don't think at the very least, Susanna, we want to move it to review.
00:08:39.390 - 00:09:06.060, Speaker A: Review just like your signaling is ready for review, but if you need to update it more for the interchange accounts, feel free to do that. But I think you can still do that in review anyways because it's still in draft stage, but it's just ready for review. So what I would recommend is to move it to review. And if there's any kind of feedback on the forum post, was there any kind of open questions about this by anyone on the team on the call?
00:09:08.750 - 00:09:27.390, Speaker F: Yeah, I have a question that's on the forum post, which is basically the allowed messages, like, what do we want to specify for that value? So, if you like, in the process of moving this to review, we can also get a little bit more clarity on what this proposal is suggesting.
00:09:30.310 - 00:10:07.450, Speaker D: My initial response on that is, I guess it just completely depends on the use cases you want to enable, because you could either just restrict it to the messages specifically within the scope of what stride want to use, interchange accounts for, or you could just use the star to enable all message types, which would then open up, maybe like a more broader other use cases. I didn't realize that there was a question in the forum, but I can also nudge Aidan and Sam.
00:10:09.470 - 00:10:58.080, Speaker C: Yeah, the only message type that we can't use is pfps, but we can use the things that have been expressed. Like that could be useful to people, would be like fee granter, and then everything that you could use for lsts. This is at least the only things that I could see or think of. And then the other thing, that question that I think that Ratul brought up today, earlier today was the current specification only says the host, but I think we could also add the controller as well. I'm not sure on which one we have social consensus on. I know we already have social consensus roughly on the host, but I think we could also add the controller as be Aiden's not on this call right now, are they?
00:10:59.650 - 00:11:02.560, Speaker D: I didn't see him. No, I didn't think so.
00:11:06.050 - 00:11:54.430, Speaker E: I got just my view on this, if I may, which would be more of a conservative take. Until there is proven use of wanting there to be control on Celestia we shouldn't enable it. Take the minimal approach of not having anything until people request, and then adding that as people want it rather than just enabling everything. And we have no idea what kind of application or if anyone wants to use it. So I guess there's two different paths we can go down this I'm fine with either, but I guess there's nothing wrong within the v three when people come about saying hey, we really actually want control. To add that of course if there's demand now that I'm unaware of, then I'm also happy to do both sides of the ICA.
00:11:55.410 - 00:12:56.100, Speaker C: Yeah, I've only heard from Jacob expressed interest in that in the community pool having the ability to control or send funds over to different chains. It sounded like an interesting use case, but I think you're right. We at least don't have anything written, but we should at least I can ping Jacob and ask him if he doesn't want to comment directly on the pr. I can as well to sort of try and get to the bottom of if we want controller or not. And I think the only other thing was I don't remember if I had a few other remaining questions, but John expressed interest in making the CIP a bit more general. So making it that it's not just as focused on lsts. Yes, of course it's very useful for lsts, but if we also want it for something like fee granter, which was expressed I think by is anyone from strangelove on the call.
00:12:56.100 - 00:13:34.510, Speaker C: I think they expressed interest in having the ability to pay for blobs to be included. We can't have pfbs over IBC, but we can do something like fee granter. So we should discuss with them if they would like something like that to include the fee granter messages. Otherwise we can do what column suggested where we stay as strict as possible, as minimal as possible for now. And as far as messages, you're absolutely right we are very much interested in using interchange accounts and fee granter in order to pay for blog posting. Dyslexia.
00:13:36.790 - 00:13:37.298, Speaker A: Nice.
00:13:37.384 - 00:13:37.970, Speaker C: Okay.
00:13:38.120 - 00:14:13.420, Speaker D: I think it also might be useful to speak to the time wave team because they're working on something kind of related to what you mentioned about community pool spends and that would require ICA controller enabled. So I guess maybe you could go the conservative approach. But then if the kind of cadence of releases is at least six months, then yeah, that's the only other thing to consider. It would just block the use case for another period of time.
00:14:15.310 - 00:14:31.540, Speaker C: Makes sense. We can definitely talk to those teams before the next community call. If I won't ping them, I can find someone to ping them for you, said timewave. And then of course strange love. And I can also talk with ad as well.
00:14:31.910 - 00:14:33.540, Speaker D: Yeah, if you speak with.
00:14:37.830 - 00:14:38.900, Speaker C: Sounds good.
00:14:41.750 - 00:15:22.820, Speaker A: All right, great discussion. It sounds like necessarily there's a lot of differing opinions on CIP 14, and I'd recommend that having all these on the forum post all the different points so that if it requires being updated to be more generalized, then that could be part of that scope of work before it's ready. So I'd recommend moving it to the forum post because I don't think there's rough consensus on CIP 14 yet as it stands today. Moving on to CIP 17. Okay, so I don't know. There's a bug here in the yaml. I need to figure it out.
00:15:22.820 - 00:15:51.498, Speaker A: So CIP 17 is actually a meta CIP written by Evan. Thank you, Evan. It's what we call the next hard work. It's called lemongrass hardwork. The hard work naming is going to follow tea leaves name because a lot of people love drinking tea. And so far, Evan, if you want to go over, feel free to about the specification, what is going to be included in it, et cetera. Sure.
00:15:51.664 - 00:16:35.846, Speaker C: It's the five cips that I think we've talked the most about so far. So CIP ten, with coordinated upgrades, we have CIP 14, interchange accounts, CIP nine, packet forward middleware, CIP twelve, incentivization middleware, and CIP six, price enforcement. So all five of those cips will need to be finalized before this can be finalized. And then the one thing left to do in the meta CIP. So CIP 17 is to determine the activation. We still don't know the exact activation height. And as specified in CIP ten for the coordinated upgrades, the first upgrade is a little bit different than the normal upgrades.
00:16:35.846 - 00:16:49.578, Speaker C: The normal upgrades will have like the signaling mechanism we of course, don't have the signaling mechanism yet. So we have to basically just pick a height and pass it as a flag. Is that right column? It's not embedded in the binary. It's as a flag.
00:16:49.754 - 00:16:51.120, Speaker E: Yes, that's correct.
00:16:51.570 - 00:16:51.934, Speaker C: Yeah.
00:16:51.972 - 00:16:52.510, Speaker A: Okay.
00:16:52.660 - 00:17:06.740, Speaker C: So we still have to pick that height. And once that height is determined, then it can be included in the CIP, and then this CIP can be finalized. But until then, the CIP is not final.
00:17:09.190 - 00:17:57.454, Speaker A: Sounds good. So for the heights, I think there are three different heights to consider. The first one is the Arabica height. The second one will be the mocha height, and it will be good to add them to the specification as we test it. And finally the main net high decided and stuff, and only when all of these were, when it's activated on main net, then I guess then we can move it to final. I think for the future call, I think there's just like some feedback on CIP 14. But for the future call, while we try to resolve CIP 14, just like the direction people want to take it, I think we should probably align on the path toward implementation.
00:17:57.454 - 00:18:54.338, Speaker A: And then what? We can use the rest of the call moving forward if there are no new cips coming from the other working groups. Talk about updates on the hard work, implementation process and timeline in order to activate it on testnet and any results from that before we activate it on mainnet. Cool. Having said that, I think that's pretty much it for now. So I think the main action item is, people, please, all these great topics and questions. Please add it to the forum post so that we have a collection of all these discussion points as well for CIP 14. For the rest, a lot of them are moving to last call with the exception of, I believe CIP.
00:18:54.338 - 00:19:24.398, Speaker A: Was it nine that's moving to final today? It's one or the other. And yeah, I think this is it for now. And I'll share updates for the next upcoming call. We're going to move it to Wednesdays for now because Ethan can't make it otherwise if it's on Tuesday day and a few other people. So we'll move it to Wednesday. Moving forward back to Wednesdays. With that said, thank you all for coming.
00:19:24.398 - 00:19:34.366, Speaker A: I know it's a short one, but we have a hard work specified, so we're moving in a good direction. And yeah, I'll talk to you all later. Care. Take care.
00:19:34.548 - 00:19:35.236, Speaker B: Thanks, yos.
00:19:35.236 - 00:19:35.361, Speaker A: Take.
00:19:35.361 - 00:19:35.850, Speaker C: Thanks, y'all.
00:19:35.930 - 00:19:36.590, Speaker A: Bye.
00:19:37.250 - 00:19:38.090, Speaker C: Thanks. Bye.
