00:00:00.330 - 00:00:32.836, Speaker A: Okay, let's do this thing. So, hello, everyone. Welcome to roll call number two. Hope everyone had a good new year and everyone is ready to get back into things. We'll post the agenda in the chat quickly. Agenda is in the chat. And as you usual, this will be available on YouTube after the fact recording of this call.
00:00:32.836 - 00:01:33.270, Speaker A: Okay, so first topic for the day is EIP 7587. That is an EIP for reserving a pre compile address space for rips. So basically we can have our own addresses to play with. As we discussed on the last roll call. We've brought this up now twice on the all core devs call, the l one coordination call. And basically it seems to be general consensus that this is a good idea. The plan is to have it finalized and merged by the next all core devs, which is the Thursday, not this week, but next week, at which point we can start issuing pre compile addresses as we need for the roll call process, which is pretty cool.
00:01:33.270 - 00:02:28.312, Speaker A: And then we'll guarantee to have no conflicts with the l one. The one exception here or not exception. The one thing that still remains to be seen is whether the l one process, if they start adopting the rips we have, whether they will reuse our address range addresses or not. This is just an open topic, and I think we'll probably be evaluated on a case by case basis in the beginning as they look at things like whether they would like to include r one or not. But at the very least, I have the guarantee that there won't be any conflicts. And I would be surprised if we didn't see some kind of merging of using the same addresses for the things that are redeployed on r one. So that's the major, the main topic there.
00:02:28.312 - 00:02:38.110, Speaker A: And then the next. Does anyone have anything I'd like to add to that?
00:02:38.560 - 00:02:42.270, Speaker B: That's awesome. Great to hear.
00:02:42.960 - 00:02:53.504, Speaker A: Yeah, no, pretty excited to have our own space to play with. Yeah, that is fun basics, but yeah, it's important. Great.
00:02:53.542 - 00:02:53.696, Speaker C: Yeah.
00:02:53.718 - 00:03:14.600, Speaker A: So moving on, one of the main impetuses to get this done so quickly is the r one pre compile that I know everyone is very excited about. So that is rip 7212. I believe that has been finalized onscar.
00:03:17.260 - 00:03:17.720, Speaker C: Yes.
00:03:17.790 - 00:03:18.410, Speaker D: Today.
00:03:21.820 - 00:03:22.376, Speaker A: Okay.
00:03:22.478 - 00:03:36.770, Speaker D: Today was the last day of the last call deadline and a few minutes ago, unscarm noise, and it's now the final IIP and ready to be implemented by any roll up.
00:03:43.880 - 00:03:47.152, Speaker A: Yeah, this is really cool. Sorry, go ahead, Oscar.
00:03:47.296 - 00:04:12.348, Speaker C: Yes, and just to mention, basically, we already, in coordination with all codefs we already assigned the very first address in this IP pre compile range to the r one pre compile. That should be. What's that, zero x 100 or zero x 200? I always forget zero x 100, I think, right?
00:04:12.434 - 00:04:13.068, Speaker D: Yes.
00:04:13.234 - 00:04:14.284, Speaker A: 100?
00:04:14.482 - 00:04:40.964, Speaker C: Yes. Okay. And so while we're going to wait until next allcodefs a week from now to finalize the EIP, that officially blocks the entire preconfire range. We already brought up the r one case in particular also on Orcodef. So basically this one address is already kind of finally reserved for r one from the Orcodef set as well. So this is really fully, no caveats. Final.
00:04:40.964 - 00:05:13.754, Speaker C: So any L2, I mean, I assume no one is going to ship the one pre compile literally within the next week, but the pre compile is really ready to go. So any team that is interested, of course, again, the IP process is supposed to be opt in, but for anyone who is interested, the pre comparison are ready, basically. Yeah.
00:05:13.872 - 00:06:20.660, Speaker A: Thanks. Just to reiterate what that means, that when rip is final, that means that the only changes that we can see moving forward are changes sort of around just the wording and explanation, but the actual standard itself is not going to change. If we need to change the standard itself, we will need a new rip and a new address for using that so we can ensure that there are no conflicts. So everyone is free to implement this should they choose to do so or not. Should they choose to do so as well. Any other comments on this rip? No? Okay, great. It looks like we're really shredding through the agenda today, which is pretty awesome.
00:06:20.660 - 00:06:31.130, Speaker A: And then the last topic I have on the agenda before we get to some more general discussion is the idea of rip working groups, which ANSk has been thinking about a bit. So I'll hand over to you.
00:06:33.260 - 00:07:08.484, Speaker C: Sorry, I had to finish my congrats message on the chat. Great. Yeah. So basically, I already kind of mentioned this on the last call. Of course, we were all a little sad that we didn't end up having our in person event in Istanbul where we already had kind of worked out an agenda that I think we all were pretty excited about. So there's a bunch of topics that know we would be really happy to dive in, but the main roll call doesn't seem like the right place. So the idea is just as an experiment between this roll call and the next roll call.
00:07:08.484 - 00:07:56.944, Speaker C: The next roll call will be in five weeks, so that gives us four Wednesdays in between. The plan is to have four breakout sessions, same time, same length, but of course with a big difference. And otherwise weekly would also just be way too much. Of course, while the main roll call we would really like if every team has a representative here, of course for the breakout sessions it's much more, it's going to be specific topics. And then this attendance only makes sense for people who actually specifically maybe have already worked on this topic or are interested in this topic. So it's fine to skip the calls that you're not interested in. So then on next roll call we can have like a little retrospective, see whether this makes sense at all, whether we want to keep it up, maybe keep it up on a slower cadence.
00:07:56.944 - 00:08:49.172, Speaker C: Once we basically worked through the initial topics we wanted to go to at the in person event, or just leave it as this one off for January, basically. So we have four calls, which means four topics to choose. The idea is to choose the topic for the first week. Now I have a candidate, I'll go into that in a second and then I'm going to publish an eastern editions thread, hopefully today or tomorrow, where we can basically see, prioritize other topics people want to talk to. I'll have some proposals kind of coming out of this Istanbul event, but I think since then there's also been a few new topics in the roll call chat and everything. So we can select the other threes and three. And then the idea is that we'll announce the breakout calls at least a week in advance for each of these calls and they'll be on the calendar as well.
00:08:49.172 - 00:09:27.996, Speaker C: And we'll also announce them in the telegram chat. So you should hopefully be aware. But again, attendance very much optional for those. So specifically for, I mean, just briefly of course, in case anyone thinks this is a terrible idea, wants to propose any adjustments before I go into the topic specifically. But I assume. Okay, yeah, I wasn't thinking, just wanting to give some room. So then for next week in particular, we had a question here basically for teams, and in particular a topic that came up very recently was ERP four eight four and the Dankoon hard fork.
00:09:27.996 - 00:10:29.910, Speaker C: Obviously that's now finally actually scheduled for this, for the testnets, for Ethereum. And then we basically already are now on a pretty tight timeline, pretty reliable timeline for mainnet as well. So the question is, of course at some point that also means that L2 should start kind of testing their void before integrations. We are not aware specifically how far along the individual teams are on this yet. So the idea would be to have one of these Wednesdays be a void for four testing call where we will have some of the layer one testing people and then the L2 teams that are interested in kind of talking about this come on and talk about testing. But we were not certain whether next week might be a bit too short notice or whether teams would already be ready. So the question basically that I would have for this group is whether you all think this makes sense at all, and then whether you think you'd be ready for this by next Wednesday already.
00:10:29.910 - 00:10:49.370, Speaker C: And then I have fallback proposals for topics if that's too short notice. Yeah, Harry?
00:10:51.470 - 00:11:17.860, Speaker B: Yeah, I was just going to say on the arbitram side, that sounds good to me. We're kind of currently targeting having something kind of viable for having a main net release candidate ish by the end of this month. So certainly in a good place to talk about and obviously very top of mind.
00:11:20.550 - 00:11:20.866, Speaker C: Yeah.
00:11:20.888 - 00:11:48.000, Speaker E: Hey, I'm working on the 4844 implementation for op stack I just posted in the comments. We have finalized our spec and are well along the way of implementing it. Hope to have a devnet running on one of the Denkun hard forks shortly. I'm aiming for end of week, but that may slip till next week. So we'll definitely have our release candidate by the end of the month. Happy to talk about any of that.
00:12:00.090 - 00:12:26.880, Speaker C: Sounds good. Of course, the idea is to have this be as useful as possible. Any team specifically that would think they would get more value out of this if it was, say, one or two weeks later, more close to, say, the Sipolia hard fork or is next week fine for everyone? Of course, again, only those teams that are actively working on this anyway should show up to the breakout call or who are interested.
00:12:29.730 - 00:12:44.310, Speaker E: I mean, I guess it depends on what are the goals? Are the goals to just to kind of explain where we're at or to discuss options of implementation, I suppose. What would the topics be at this breakout session? I guess maybe a little more specifically.
00:12:46.410 - 00:13:33.160, Speaker C: Right. So I think basically it depends a little bit on when we'll have the call. If we have it next week, it would be more about preparing. So talking about the different kind of aspects for the individual teams, like how ready they are and then what specific kind of aspects they would want to test. And maybe some insights from the testing team on how to best support this. If it's a little later, say more towards the sepolia hard fork. Assuming that sepolia is where most teams would then end up testing it in real life beyond the devnets, then we could kind of talk more concretely about sepolia specific issues.
00:13:35.290 - 00:13:47.170, Speaker E: Got it. Yeah, I mean, next week is going to be really busy for me. Selfishly, next for a week would be good, but I could do either way. I'm flexible.
00:13:51.740 - 00:13:55.272, Speaker C: Wait, were you saying selfishly next week would be good or would not be good because you're.
00:13:55.336 - 00:14:00.270, Speaker E: No, no, selfishly, I'm really busy next week, so it would be better to have an extra week, but I can be.
00:14:09.230 - 00:14:17.660, Speaker D: Vlad dropped a comment already for ZK sync, but essentially we should be ready by next week as well. But obviously anytime after that is also adequate for us.
00:14:22.590 - 00:14:35.540, Speaker B: Yeah, I think good with either next week or the week after. Definitely like the idea of having a call for sure, since I think there are a lot of interesting dynamics to talk about.
00:14:41.120 - 00:15:24.250, Speaker C: Sounds good. Yeah. Well then I'll just say that given that no one seemed to have a strong preference to have it as early as possible, maybe we can then just pick the Wednesday two weeks from now. That is the 24th, which would also bank at six days before the sepolia hard fork, which seems like a good time. It's not. Hopefully not too busy because it's not right after like the week after everyone might be busy, so could be the sweet spot. So then we'll have the breakout call two weeks from now, and I'll set that up and I'll announce it more officially next two days.
00:15:24.250 - 00:16:31.628, Speaker C: Then that does leave next week. The two fallback proposals that I had for next week would be, and I guess it depends a little on how in depth people would want to go or whoever would want to show up. Then that could be either the smaller topic, which would just be pre compiled again. So basically having another look at the standardization, the range, how to, for example, keep track of the status of which roll ups are intending to ship, which pre compiles, and how to keep track of these things. Then there's also the idea of progressive pre compiles. So basically how to have a standard where the individual application doesn't have to specifically be recompiled for every different chain, but could have some sort of fallback. There could be some standard for just EVM implementation and some automatic routing so that you just call one address, but under the hood it just always works, no matter whether there is native precompile or not deployed.
00:16:31.628 - 00:17:08.328, Speaker C: So basically there's all the topics related to precompiles. Or the alternative, a bit more on the theory side, a topic that I've been looking into last year as well would be fee markets. So how can we get from the count situation of everyone just having some sort of somewhat hacky way of charging users fees, because you always have to account for both the layer one settlement cost. Right. But then also the L2 intrinsic congestion pricing. So how can we kind of turn this into a more principled, possibly, say two dimensional, but that's just one option. Fee market.
00:17:08.328 - 00:17:19.310, Speaker C: So those were the kind of the two ideas I had for alternatives to talk about. Is there anything, say, one of these two topics that people would be more excited about for next week?
00:17:22.740 - 00:17:27.650, Speaker B: I'd love a call about fee markets. I feel like there's a lot of great stuff we could do there.
00:17:33.990 - 00:17:51.980, Speaker F: Yeah, I agree. At the same time, I think that pre compiles are probably just easier to do. And also it's something that we can implement right away. And having fee market, it's more like long term vision. So I don't know what is appropriate for first next week.
00:18:05.760 - 00:18:37.110, Speaker C: Right. Yeah, that's roughly what I expected. Okay, let's do it this way then. I don't want to take this out too long. Let's have next week just talk about pre compiled because that also means that we have then, and then we have fee markets as the topic after four. So basically the next three breakout sessions then would be pre compiles for it for four testing and then fee markets. That gives also a little bit more time to actually prepare, maybe for people who are interested in the fee market side.
00:18:37.110 - 00:19:09.432, Speaker C: And then we'll pick one more topic to round it out and then we have the next roll call. I think that makes sense. If anyone disagrees. Last chance. Otherwise I'll just post the announcements shortly after this and then we can just see where this goes. Okay, sounds good. Sorry, bring us out.
00:19:09.432 - 00:19:22.700, Speaker C: But thanks. I think those are good topics, hopefully productive. So yeah. Looking forward to talking with you all, or again, whoever wants to show up for those over the next few weeks. Back to Carl.
00:19:24.580 - 00:20:05.390, Speaker A: Awesome. Yeah, thanks, Oscar. Yeah, I think those are great topic choices. I think specifically, one other thing that's worth pointing out here is that we'd like to bring on other relevant parties that have been doing a bunch of research or have thought about this on the l one side. So the testing call, we'd like to get some of the testing people from the l one side there so we can just have sort of meaningful cross layer discussions too at these working group calls. And with that, it brings us to the end of our agenda. Is there anything else people would like to discuss on this call?
00:20:07.360 - 00:20:25.520, Speaker G: There was EIPRip 70 212 about sec. P, two, five, six. Air one. So p, two, five, six. Curve standardization. I think it was Ulas who pushed it to the agenda.
00:20:26.340 - 00:20:27.090, Speaker D: Yes.
00:20:30.840 - 00:20:35.700, Speaker A: So I think you joined about 5 minutes late. Mammy.
00:20:37.020 - 00:20:41.000, Speaker G: That's okay. I'll read the summary.
00:20:41.980 - 00:20:59.790, Speaker A: It's all good. TLDR is we finalized that rip as it stands because there were no comments in the final period so it's finalized at address 100.
00:21:02.980 - 00:21:04.290, Speaker G: Okay, thank you.
00:21:08.950 - 00:21:28.704, Speaker A: Anything else people would like to discuss? Going once, going twice. Okay, well thanks everyone.
00:21:28.822 - 00:21:47.140, Speaker C: Maybe just briefly mention because we're right like in the protocol call calendar in case anyone has seen that the next roll call is at the wrong date. We're going to fix that shortly. It should be February 14, not February 7. So the next roll call will be February 14?
00:21:49.960 - 00:22:07.656, Speaker A: Yes. Thanks everyone for attending. Hope to see lots of you in these working group calls, especially the testing one and otherwise we'll be chatting async and definitely see all of you next on February 14. Thank you.
00:22:07.838 - 00:22:09.400, Speaker C: Thanks everyone. Bye.
