00:00:01.600 - 00:00:41.366, Speaker A: Okay, welcome everyone to the validator community. Call March 30, 2023 Agenda tonight, going to do some validator updates, talk a little bit about suggestions in Mainnet beta. So a reminder of the mainnet rollout plan with a little bit of tweaks from what we talked about earlier. Then an update on the validator. Gated link roles the discord bot for keeping track of if you're actually running a validator or not. And then some time for open discussion if people want to bring up other topics. First of all, there's a update to Testnet.
00:00:41.366 - 00:01:33.164, Speaker A: So 113.7 is now recommended for Testnet. A call also went out maybe four or 5 hours ago to bring 33% of the network on Testnet up to 1.14.7. So the goal here is to run Testnet in a state where we've got some, I don't want to say uncertainty, but some interoperability testing to be done right. So if we have about 33% of stake on 114 and then the rest on 113, ideally we'll be able to catch more bugs than just having the entire cluster on 1.13, which is, you know, hasn't really resulted in many new bugs and is operating fine as is. So the idea here is we upgrade to 114 and hopefully run into some new errors on Testnet before it happens on Mainnet.
00:01:33.164 - 00:02:03.474, Speaker A: Yeah, so that's the general idea. This isn't the beginning of the rollout plan for Mainnet. So there's no timeline right now on when the, the mainnet rollout is going to happen for 1.14. But the general plan is once 1.14 is stabilized, we feel like it's ready for main net. We're going to go through the entire rollout process on Testnet first. So Testnet goes 100%, 1.13,
00:02:03.474 - 00:02:36.564, Speaker A: then we do the same thing that we do on main net. So we take 10% of stake to 114, 25% of stake to 114, and then 100% of stake to 114. And as that happens, obviously we monitor the cluster, make sure it's healthy, make sure there's no issues. Assuming that whole process goes well, we do the same process again on Mainnet. So this is kind of the piece that we haven't been doing much on, or haven't done it all on Testnet that hopefully should uncover bugs that we wouldn't have uncovered otherwise. Yeah, Zantesu, go ahead.
00:02:37.624 - 00:02:54.594, Speaker B: I haven't been following that channel where there was debugging of the issue of the recent, most recent downtime. Yeah, I remember that it kind of went silent and I think the implication was that it was still being discussed, but behind, you know, sort of closed doors because that was needed for safety. Has that issue been resolved?
00:02:56.174 - 00:03:26.114, Speaker A: No, not fully. So I think it'll be resolved when 1.14 gets onto Mainnet. There's, there's some aspects of the investigation that I think they find sensitive and don't want to discuss in public. So that's the reason for keeping it outside of the discord chat. But there'll be a full sort of post mortem once 1.14 makes it to Mainnet so we can discuss the issue a little bit more openly.
00:03:26.274 - 00:03:43.794, Speaker B: But I mean, why wouldn't we wait on testnet until that's fixed? So that on Testnet we're rolling forward to the fixed version and thus ensuring as much as Testnet can that the fixed version doesn't cause a problem or, you know, during this rollout process. Does that make sense?
00:03:44.214 - 00:03:47.726, Speaker A: Not quite. So you're saying wait for what on Testnet?
00:03:47.790 - 00:04:09.150, Speaker B: Well, if there's a fix coming for whatever that most recent issue was, which I thought is what you just said, if that isn't in 114 yet, then if we roll forward to this version of 114, we're going to be rolling forward and testing this upgrade on a version that isn't even the version that we're going to roll forward with on Mainnet because one on Mainnet will have a very significant fix in it that we apparently won't have tested in this rollout process here. Does that make sense?
00:04:09.262 - 00:04:29.434, Speaker A: Right, right. So sorry for the confusion. What I'm saying here is once a 1.14 version is identified as the one that we have a fixed for and we want to push to Mainnet, then we'll go through this whole process. So that's assuming like, it might be 1.14.17, it might be 1.1 418, whatever version number that ends up being.
00:04:29.434 - 00:04:39.818, Speaker A: Then we'll take 100% of Testnet to 1.13 and go through the whole upgrade process from 13 to 14 on Testnet first before we do it on Mainnet.
00:04:39.906 - 00:04:49.770, Speaker B: Oh, so we're going to do an upgrade on Testnet to 114 and then back again to 114 and then back again to 114. Is that. Oh, okay, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
00:04:49.842 - 00:05:17.434, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah. So, yeah, maybe that wasn't super clear. Right now we are on 113.7 and we are asking 33% of stake to be on 1.14. That is not the mainnet rollout plan. And that's not like preparing for the main net rollout the point of that is just ideally to catch interoperability bugs because having the entire cluster on 1.13 is not giving us a ton of information on testnet right now.
00:05:17.434 - 00:05:55.084, Speaker A: Yesterday is about the same information as today. So ideally, if we get to this state where there's potential for consensus issues or something else coming up where 33% of the clusters on one minor version and 66 is on the other, that's, that's the hope at least that we have more information out of it and, you know, maybe catch a bug that we wouldn't have caught otherwise. But, but, yeah, once we are ready and we've identified the version we want to roll out, we're going to go through this whole process again. So take the cluster down, take it back up again. Yeah. Does that answer your question?
00:05:55.984 - 00:05:59.736, Speaker B: Yes, very much so. Sorry, I didn't get what you said before. It makes sense.
00:05:59.880 - 00:06:19.456, Speaker A: That's good clarification. Thanks. Checking. If there's questions here, can we do longer 1.14 onboarding? Something like. Yeah, yeah. So there's a question in chat about the, the steps 1025 and then 100%.
00:06:19.456 - 00:06:53.324, Speaker A: Why don't we do 1025, 40, 45, then 100 and that's 50. A good suggestion. I think the reason for that is the jump over 33%. There's not a lot of value once we get to that point because there will be periods where we're at 50, 60, et cetera, until we get up to 100%. But we could, since we have a little bit more of a guiding hand on Testnet to get stake to upgrade, we could maybe do that process a little slower. So. Yeah, yeah, I think it's something we'll consider.
00:06:53.324 - 00:07:24.794, Speaker A: I think it might be nice to have testnet running in that weird dual version state where neither version gets a supermajority, these kinds of rollouts, just to make sure nothing destabilized when the situation happens. Yeah. Okay, so soles had a similar comment to keep it in a weird state where we've got maybe 50 50 or something like that. Okay. Yeah, yeah. It's something I'll take back to engineering team. I think.
00:07:24.794 - 00:08:46.365, Speaker A: I think we will definitely be in that state for some period of time, but we can sort of ensure that happens for longer than, you know, just the upgrade process. Any more questions on those two? The current setup on Testnet and then the eventual rollout plan. Okay, cool. So switching gears to the discord bot. So this, if you haven't been keeping up with this, there was the desire after the most recent restart to have a channel that is gated just to staked validators so that we can eliminate some noise and then also have some idea of how stake is choosing to go if they want to restart or if they want to, whatever actions they want to take during restart, it'd be a little less noisy and a little bit more focused. So the initial sort of discussion was happening. This project validator, gated roles channel and discord John Wong, who's on the foundation team, put out this doc with some requirements and sort of got feedback from the community.
00:08:46.365 - 00:09:34.414, Speaker A: So open this up. It's been updated today to incorporate some of the feedback from the community led validator call that happened last week. So I encourage you all to read through this. I'll put this in the channel as well and give any feedback if you're interested in this project. Key takeaways here are there was some discussion about RPC operators and them also wanting to have a voice in this channel. So there's an addition added for RPC operators and essentially a way to like vouch for an RPC operator. If you're a voting validator and you're in the channel, you can vouch for them to also be part of the channel.
00:09:34.414 - 00:10:17.024, Speaker A: And there was a question in MB validators about whether or not this is going to be open source. The answer is yes, it will be open source. It'll be on realms and open source for, you know, for contributions. So there was another discussion in that channel about also adding the ability to vote in the channel. So I think, you know, once this initial v zero is out and make sure it works properly and that everyone can get their assigned roles, then voting could be the next step. So that's the gist. Any questions on, on that?
00:10:18.684 - 00:10:19.876, Speaker B: I have a question. May I ask?
00:10:19.940 - 00:10:20.796, Speaker A: Yeah, go for it.
00:10:20.900 - 00:11:05.064, Speaker B: If I remember from the meeting that we had in the community meeting, I didn't ask these questions. I didn't, I didn't want to belay, you know, the discussion and maybe I shouldn't ask here for that same reason, but I do remember that the design that was proposed included like having to go to some other website to like set it, you know, to like to validate that your validator is, you know, that you're really valid. Why isn't that just done by discord commands? Like I should be able to just type slash validate myself and then it should emit, the robot should, or the bot should emit some text for me to sign and then I should paste it back via command and like why would I even have to go to a third party website or like maybe I should be bringing this up with, with them. But I really feel like doing it all through discord. Just seems like it would be simpler.
00:11:05.364 - 00:11:26.496, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, I agree. I think it'll be easier. I don't know the trade offs or why, uh, John chose to implement it this way. So, um, yeah, I would say give him feedback on the doc. I think with hackmd you could actually leave comments, but if not, I could, you know, I could, um, either facilitate the conversation or just have that conversation in the Discord channel. Right.
00:11:26.520 - 00:11:45.604, Speaker B: Well, I mean, does anybody else have an opinion on that? Because I don't want to be the only person like, bugging him about it. I mean, does anybody else care? It just seems to me like if we're going to trust discord, as, you know, the communication mechanism, then let's trust it for this purpose also, and not involve some other site that has its own potential trust issues. I don't know.
00:11:46.624 - 00:11:47.888, Speaker A: Oh, sorry, go ahead.
00:11:48.056 - 00:11:51.324, Speaker B: No, it just also seems simpler to have it all go through discord.
00:11:52.464 - 00:12:13.804, Speaker A: Yeah, I think the only thing that went through a site was the authentication piece, if I remember correctly. So essentially you have to connect your account to the bot and then you do some sort of off. But I'm not super familiar with the implementation, so I don't know what exactly needs to happen there.
00:12:14.814 - 00:12:19.350, Speaker B: Okay, thanks. I guess I'll take this up on this document instead of bringing it up here.
00:12:19.462 - 00:12:20.366, Speaker A: Fair enough. Question.
00:12:20.430 - 00:12:24.918, Speaker B: Nobody wants to encourage me in this, please let me know, because otherwise, just me out there.
00:12:25.046 - 00:12:35.758, Speaker A: No, I think it's good feedback, and I don't have a good answer for you, so I would. Yeah, I'd suggest talking to John. Is it nor. I'm not sure I pronounced your name.
00:12:35.886 - 00:13:02.454, Speaker C: Yeah, that's good pronouns, good pronouns. So I have a question regarding the validating the validator itself. So what are we going to do with validator that is running multiple nodes, and what we're going to do with validators that are not willing to come forward and publish themselves.
00:13:03.674 - 00:13:45.054, Speaker A: Yeah, so this is opt in. Of course you don't have to go through this process. I suppose if you have somebody that could vouch for you, you could use a different key and get vouched that way. But yeah, I mean, you could also just choose not to participate. The only requirement here is that you sign a message using a curl, I think a post. So if you look here, send a curl command to this API to verify that you can sign a challenge message. And that, I don't know exactly what gets stored there? So that might be a question for, like, what we're actually saving in the bot.
00:13:45.054 - 00:13:52.626, Speaker A: But I also don't know what your privacy concerns are there. Zantatsu, go ahead.
00:13:52.770 - 00:14:49.488, Speaker B: Yeah, actually, I thought about the first issue that you mentioned, which is what happens when an operator runs multiple validators. I mean, I didn't propose this, but I hope that the logical thing that will be chosen in the design is that you can, you know, validate your account for multiple validators, and that there will be some way to identify via a bot command that this particular discord user id is, you know, is affiliated with these particular validators, and that when there is any vote implementation, that that user would then be allowed to vote for all three or all n, I should say, I don't know. But honestly, great questions to bring up with, you know, the person that wrote this, this design and make sure that they are considering these things before they, they go too far forward. In terms of the second thing, what about people don't identify themselves? I mean, I don't know. What can you say? I mean, it's just a discord handle. So I guess when you sign up for discord, you have to provide a phone number to be able to get into the Solana tech discord. That's pretty much the only KYC kind of thing that you provide.
00:14:49.488 - 00:15:11.928, Speaker B: Aside from that, it's an anonymous id that you can put anything you want to. And if someone runs a validator and they really don't want to identify themselves in any way, shape, or form, then I guess they're, they don't have a communication channel, but never be able to have a communication channel, period, because they have no way to communicate without identifying themselves. Um, so, yeah, I mean, look, I.
00:15:11.936 - 00:15:27.590, Speaker A: Could understand some concerns. If you're running a validator as a service and you don't want competitors or people in the ecosystem to know how much stake that you've got. Um, I assume the sit, like, the solution there would just be don't validate multiple validators, just use one.
00:15:27.702 - 00:15:53.348, Speaker B: But you could always sign up for multiple discord user ids. And then, yeah, that too. Say each of them. Just say dummy one, dummy two, and dummy three, or whatever you want to call them. The only problem, like I said, is that whole phone number requirement. And maybe this is something else to bring up. If there's some way to relax that in some way for people that want to do just this and come on the discord, if they're willing to, you know, authenticate themselves as validators, then they don't really need to use the phone number method to authenticate themselves with the discord.
00:15:53.348 - 00:15:55.404, Speaker B: So maybe that could be an alternate way.
00:15:56.064 - 00:15:57.616, Speaker A: Yeah, that's possible.
00:15:57.800 - 00:16:04.284, Speaker C: I don't mind providing a phone number. I'm more concerned about attaching my name to a specific validator.
00:16:04.864 - 00:16:10.404, Speaker B: Yeah, could you just discord id, call it whatever you want, and donate and let anybody know that you.
00:16:11.584 - 00:16:17.524, Speaker C: But who's using this information about my validator that I'm providing as part of the challenge?
00:16:18.144 - 00:16:42.320, Speaker B: Well, it would only associate whatever discord id that you say should be associated with that validator. With that validator. So if you make up a fake name for your discord, I just make a fake discord id to log in with and then use that to authenticate with your validator. Then all that means is that that discord id will be in discord via the bot identified as with that validator, but it doesn't identify you personally. That makes sense.
00:16:42.432 - 00:16:43.136, Speaker A: I see what you're saying.
00:16:43.160 - 00:16:45.604, Speaker C: But then I need to manage two accounts on Discord.
00:16:46.344 - 00:16:47.176, Speaker A: Yeah. Yeah.
00:16:47.200 - 00:16:50.034, Speaker B: There's no perfect solution. That seems like probably the best we can do.
00:16:50.224 - 00:17:16.350, Speaker A: Yeah, that would be the workaround. I mean, I think what Zantetsu said is correct. Right. You're not going to actually have to Kyc yourself or prove that you are the person who runs the validator. It's just literally signing a message with your pub key, so. Or with your private key. And also to answer the multiple validator question, there's a stretch goal here to add the ability to verify multiple validators.
00:17:16.350 - 00:17:49.800, Speaker A: So, you know, that may not be the v one solution, but it's on the roadmap here. Thank you. Yep. Thank you. Just looking through comments in the chat. Yeah, that's a good question. So Solblaze is asking, is it possible for other people like Solana Labs, foundations, contributors, et cetera, to join the channel, or will it be strictly node operators? I think that'll be up to whoever creates the channel.
00:17:49.800 - 00:18:27.734, Speaker A: Right. So you could allow multiple roles in the channel or not. I assume for something like restart you'd want at least labs and foundation people in there, probably contributors as well, but that's sort of a community decision. Yep. Blake says you prefer the design without a third party website. I think that's probably best if it's not too much more work. Removing the phone number verification on a case by case basis is that it's built in discord security setting.
00:18:27.734 - 00:18:39.454, Speaker A: Yeah. Yeah. So I don't know the challenges with removing the phone number requirement, but I imagine it's probably not something that's going to be easy to do for one or two people.
00:18:51.894 - 00:19:24.586, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, I'm a moderator, and I used to, back when the discord had a general channel and we were inundated with spammers and scammers, the phone thing never stopped them anyway. I never saw, like, I don't know how many more there would have been had that. Some, if that was effective, but it certainly wasn't effective enough to prevent there from being thousands of accounts created every day. If you. There's a channel, I don't know if anyone else has access to our moderators, where you could see new accounts getting created, and they would be created multiple, you know, a second, just all day long. They were just getting spammed in continuously. So whatever it is, it doesn't seem like it stops spammers anyway, or scammers.
00:19:24.586 - 00:19:28.538, Speaker B: So I'm not sure what the phone number verification is even doing, honestly.
00:19:28.666 - 00:19:52.862, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, I guess we'll find out if we turn it off and there's a flood of new bots, but $0.10 for a phone number? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's probably not. Not stopping a lot. Yeah. Okay.
00:19:52.862 - 00:20:33.300, Speaker A: So anyway, the TLDR on this discussion is give feedback in project validator gated roles. John Wong, I think, is in that channel. So you could add him probably in daylight hours and give him some feedback. But I think, yeah, these are all good points to bring up. Any other questions or thoughts about this. Okay, cool. As well.
00:20:33.300 - 00:20:59.724, Speaker A: Dev said he's got a discord validator controller that he made a few weeks ago, so definitely something to check out. Yeah. Links in the chat, and I'll post it in the notes for the video as well. Okay, well, that's all the scheduled stuff I have. Are there any other topics or questions people want to bring up?
00:21:04.024 - 00:21:05.872, Speaker D: I have. I have a question.
00:21:06.008 - 00:21:07.204, Speaker A: Yeah, go for it.
00:21:09.064 - 00:21:44.024, Speaker D: So, normally I wouldn't do this, but I posted the question to some of my delegators, and I asked about Jito specific stuff, and their most pointed question was, what is the Solana Foundation's position on running Cheeto validators? And if Solana is supportive of running the geo validators, why isn't it integrated directly into the code?
00:21:46.084 - 00:21:50.460, Speaker A: Well, so, first of all, foundations of labs are two different organizations, right? And.
00:21:50.532 - 00:21:52.668, Speaker D: Okay, sorry, sorry, sorry. I meant labs.
00:21:52.756 - 00:22:37.584, Speaker A: Yeah. Okay, sorry. Yeah. So labs, I think there's some desire, definitely from Geo's end, to integrate the code into the labs client. It's just probably a question of priorities and time especially right now, where labs is mainly focused on stability and creating a team that's doing more penetration testing and just all around release testing. I don't think bringing in a lot of instability and sort of refactoring things to add some sort of a plug in model for Jitto is going to be their top priority at the moment. But I think longer term, that's something that makes sense, right? If I can sort of mix in.
00:22:37.624 - 00:22:44.464, Speaker D: Some more features of a resource type issue than a fundamental disagreement issue.
00:22:44.624 - 00:23:00.064, Speaker A: Yeah, I think so, yeah. I mean, I don't think either team wants the current state where they produce a client and then Jito has to go and patch their changes back into the client and then, you know, produce their own release. It's just more of a.
00:23:00.104 - 00:23:02.478, Speaker D: Which is what happens today, right?
00:23:02.526 - 00:23:04.354, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, exactly.
00:23:04.894 - 00:23:39.994, Speaker D: So, so my, my, I don't say objections to it. I was okay with it. Like there, there's, there's a delay to running judo, and it takes a little bit more effort on the validator side, which I got comfortable with because I'm running on Testnet legends, running a testnet. But then I posed the question to the, our delegators, and like, eh, I don't know, don't do it right now. We're not sure about it. So I was like, okay, pause, pause. We're gonna, we're gonna stop.
00:23:39.994 - 00:24:08.314, Speaker D: Like, operationally, I was okay with it, but then we stopped because delegators had issues with it. And I don't know if any other, but I'm just kind of curious if anybody else has had similar conversations or is concerned about it, to be honest, from a technical perspective, I don't understand enough to have technical objections to it, I guess, but some of my delegators did.
00:24:10.694 - 00:24:13.630, Speaker A: Yeah, fair enough. Zantetsu, do you have a question? Comment?
00:24:13.742 - 00:24:49.840, Speaker B: Okay, so I don't run one yet, but I have analyzed it fairly extensively, including reading almost all their changes that they incorporate into the validator code base that you have to patch in to to run their version of the validator. There are a couple of things I think are worthy to note. You already brought up the fact that there's a delay, and what you mean by that is that the way judo works is all transactions. They sort of provide a gate for all transactions to make it before it makes it to your validator. They call that the relayer. The relayer receives transactions instead of your validator when you run. Ditto, your validator advertises their relayer as your TPU port, not your own validator.
00:24:49.840 - 00:25:45.964, Speaker B: So all your transactions get shuttled to this relayer client. And what the relayer does is it first sends the transactions off to Jitto in Jitto land somewhere, and they then forward it onto the searchers, who have some amount, who have basically 200 milliseconds to find great transactions to make. And the relayer, after 200 milliseconds, then releases the transactions to your validator. So what that means is your validator gets all transactions with a 200 millisecond latency, basically half a slot or so. Now, that's interesting. And everyone's got to decide whether I think it's worth, like, potentially slowing down all the latency for all user transactions so that the searchers can get the benefit of being able to find arbitrages more easily, which is kind of jitto's sort of business, is what they're trying to enable, and that's a decision for everyone to make. And you should definitely let, it sounds like you have let your stakers know about that potential drawback or trade off.
00:25:45.964 - 00:26:11.148, Speaker B: That alone, I think, would make it very difficult for Solana to just decide to wholeheartedly introduce such a scheme into their validator code base, because it's a significant thing to be done and require tremendous amount of, like, discussion before they could do it. Another thing is, you know, the relayer itself, if, if you don't run your own relayer, you, you rely on Jitto's relayer. And as far as I know, almost all people running judo rely on their jitto's relayer, which essentially means that they're now the source of all your transactions. Like, you don't even get the transactions.
00:26:11.196 - 00:26:11.404, Speaker A: They.
00:26:11.444 - 00:26:29.900, Speaker B: And that's kind of centralizing force. It means that they can not that they would do this, but they could decide not to send you some transactions they don't like. They could censor their competitors transactions. They could do anything. So you kind of should, should run your own relayer as an, at a minimum, if you're going to run. But as I understand it, not many people do. So.
00:26:29.972 - 00:26:52.594, Speaker D: So, actually, no, that's a super great point. And actually, I may have made this, I may have said this incorrectly to stakers delegators. I said that the Jito transactions can come in as ordered transactions and they have priority, but regular transactions also still come in. Is that not a correct statement?
00:26:52.934 - 00:27:33.712, Speaker B: If you're on your own relayer, you can be sure that that's happening, except there will be a delay on the, on the, you know, all the transactions if you let judo do it, if you trust them to forward all the transactions, then that's also true. They will also have a 200 millisecond delay, but you'll still get them. But again, you're trusting another source to essentially be this centralized mechanism for receiving and distributing transactions to you. And you got to decide also whether you, if you don't run your own relayer, you're. And that's why I'm not going to enter without running my relay. Like, I can understand someone who got a very small stake or fairly low stake, you know, but my stake is high enough that I feel like as a responsibility for the network, I can, I can't personally. So that's one of the things that's holding me back.
00:27:33.712 - 00:27:38.604, Speaker B: And I'm modifying the relayer because I don't like some of the things it does anyway, so we'll see how that goes.
00:27:41.304 - 00:27:41.664, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:27:41.704 - 00:28:23.462, Speaker D: So I'm not gonna lie. The way that I generally make decisions on what I should be doing is I watch a few different people or a few different validators, Shinobi being one of them, and I'm like, oh, what's he doing? He's not, it may not be an automatic decision based on the five other ones that I watch. So I am watching closely, and I think I've followed most of your discord conversations. So right now, though, as far as, like, the centralization concerns, my delegator said, absolutely not, don't do it so well.
00:28:23.478 - 00:28:25.982, Speaker B: You have some very educated delegators. Congratulations.
00:28:26.158 - 00:28:28.914, Speaker D: They're smarter than me. So it's, it's a problem.
00:28:30.294 - 00:29:07.402, Speaker B: I mean, I'll be honest with you, I'm not, I nothing against digital team or judo as a concept. I personally would like it to be superfluous, and I'd like the network to be designed better so they don't need something like that. So I kind of view it as a short term potential workaround. And more than that, I feel like I'm doing, I'm going to do it because I want to not shut down community led efforts to make progress. That's the only reason, really, the reason that I'm going to participate is I feel like someone else to take some initiative. They're trying to do something. I'll try to support that, but I hope that eventually it's obsolete, because it will improve the base, Solana, so that this kind of thing won't even be needed anymore.
00:29:07.402 - 00:29:08.466, Speaker B: That's what I hope.
00:29:08.650 - 00:29:09.010, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:29:09.042 - 00:29:30.992, Speaker D: So that's actually 100% exactly what they said. This should be built in. This should not be, like, a separate solution. And they kind of left it that, like, hey, Sam, you can kind of do. You can do what you want, but, like, this should be built in, not, like, a separate solution that some people use and some people don't use. So.
00:29:31.088 - 00:29:31.320, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:29:31.352 - 00:29:33.204, Speaker D: Thank you. Thank you, Sam. I appreciate that.
00:29:34.504 - 00:29:39.044, Speaker B: Yeah, you're welcome. I mean, I could talk all night. I have other points I can make, but I'll leave it up to other people.
00:29:39.824 - 00:30:05.064, Speaker D: Now, if anybody else has any points on that. No. So, I I mean, I followed the Jito stuff, I guess, since Lisbon, I've been watching them quite closely, and I'm like, these super smart guys that are involved in it. But honestly, it's a little. It's technically a little above my pay scale. So I've been reading a lot. Thank you.
00:30:08.224 - 00:30:35.928, Speaker B: You're welcome. Just to let everyone know, I'm hacking the relayer because I don't like that 200 millisecond delay. I understand that it's necessary to give searchers time to search, but what I don't like is it means that in my last block of my leader slot, I'm going to be forwarding transactions that I could include in my slot to the next validator. And I'm like, screw that. So I'm making it so the last slot, I don't delay it. I just gets the first three blocks of my leader group and they don't get the fourth one. That's going to be my policy for Jito.
00:30:35.928 - 00:30:36.896, Speaker B: You know, that's, we have.
00:30:36.920 - 00:30:38.684, Speaker D: Is there, is there, like, a sand release?
00:30:39.224 - 00:31:04.594, Speaker B: Well, no. Generally don't take this kind of in public because I really don't want to be responsible for other people over in some way. But if it works, I will discuss this with the judo team and let them understand what I'm doing and that there could be an interesting. And if people are interested, then I. And it works, then certainly I will share it. It's not something I need to keep myself, but I definitely would have to run it for a while and test it before I'd get to the point of wanting to do that.
00:31:05.814 - 00:31:06.754, Speaker D: Thank you.
00:31:07.894 - 00:31:16.630, Speaker A: Yeah, that makes sense. I mean, I think from the network health standpoint, you're potentially missing some transactions that you could have been executing on your, you know, in your block.
00:31:16.702 - 00:31:34.444, Speaker B: So, yeah, it's true. I mean, if they get forwarded, if you forward them to the next leader and the next leader is down, they could get, like, lost or who knows what happens? Like, it for, for, you know, greatest resiliency in the network. I feel like the validator should handle all the transactions it can. So that's one of the things I'm trying to make happen in my own hack of their relayer code.
00:31:35.144 - 00:32:13.130, Speaker A: Makes sense. Yeah. Any other thoughts or questions people have? I did want to bring up one thing. So the core dev sync that's been happening. I'm curious, from a validator's point of view, if there's any feedback on that call, if people are finding them valuable or if they have anything they'd like to tweak about it. Yeah, just curious what people think about how that's going. It's too infrequent.
00:32:13.130 - 00:32:14.174, Speaker A: Say more.
00:32:15.154 - 00:32:18.962, Speaker B: You think the, is it the dev call, right?
00:32:19.058 - 00:32:21.146, Speaker A: Yeah, the dev sync, the one I'd.
00:32:21.170 - 00:32:44.214, Speaker B: Like to hear more frequently. What's going on. It feels like a month is too long of a time. You know, there must be more happening in a month that we don't even hear about because it becomes old news by the time the, you know, the meeting even rolls around. So I'd love to have it be by week, you know, every other week instead of once a month, personally. But it's, it's a resource drain on Solana labs time, so I understand it's up to them to decide how often they want to do it.
00:32:44.554 - 00:33:04.274, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's the push and pull right now is, you know, how much time people in labs can dedicate to it versus the community benefit, so. But, yeah, I mean, that's good feedback. Any other thoughts, ways to maybe make the call more engaging to the community?
00:33:08.294 - 00:33:16.394, Speaker D: I don't think I've actually seen it before, so I don't. Is it announcing the, in the channel in the same announcement channel?
00:33:17.494 - 00:33:38.816, Speaker A: No, it's a different channel. So maybe that's another point that. Yeah, stop sharing my screen. Yeah, I guess maybe the, another problem is that it's sort of announced in a different way, so there is a, want to make sure I got the channel name right. Core community call channel.
00:33:39.000 - 00:33:40.764, Speaker D: Yeah, I've never, I've never seen that before.
00:33:43.864 - 00:33:51.992, Speaker B: They do put announcements for that, like the meeting right before it happens in the typical announcements channel, but unless you're looking for that and prepared, you won't.
00:33:52.008 - 00:33:55.480, Speaker D: Even, but in validator announcements, I'm pretty.
00:33:55.512 - 00:34:20.956, Speaker A: Sure it's not always invalidator announcements. I did it. Maybe the first call, but, yeah, there's a, there's a calendar, like a public calendar that's published for it. So you can add that calendar to your calendar and have it that way. But, yeah, maybe having, like, a discord announcement might be a good idea, too, just because I think, at least from the validator point of view, a lot of people are used to that or.
00:34:20.980 - 00:34:29.740, Speaker D: Maybe advertise it a little bit more. I literally. I'm totally honest, I've never seen it. I try to pay attention, but maybe I miss it.
00:34:29.772 - 00:34:30.084, Speaker A: I've never.
00:34:30.124 - 00:34:31.004, Speaker D: I've never seen it before.
00:34:31.084 - 00:34:51.178, Speaker B: And just so you know, it's not. It's not meant to. I don't think it's meant to be a super, like, collaborative community of discussion thing. It's not like everyone has a voice. Only sonal labs, really, and people they specifically designate to be participants in that meeting because they have an agenda item to speak about, get speaking rights. So it's not like, you know, it's not really a big free for all. And I think that's appropriate.
00:34:51.178 - 00:34:56.522, Speaker B: It's really for sonal labs to communicate and get feedback. I think that's what the meeting is for. So it's.
00:34:56.578 - 00:34:57.130, Speaker A: Yeah, it's.
00:34:57.162 - 00:34:57.794, Speaker B: It's something that.
00:34:57.834 - 00:35:07.738, Speaker D: Yeah, that. That actually sounds interesting. But that sounds interesting. I'm still never. I would give you my opinion if I'd ever seen it before, but I haven't yet.
00:35:07.906 - 00:35:20.914, Speaker A: Oh, yeah. So I posted the. I think this is the first call that we had in the chat. I'm not trying to see on the fly here if we've got a playlist, but maybe we do not.
00:35:22.094 - 00:35:24.234, Speaker D: Oh, this is the YouTube.
00:35:25.054 - 00:35:33.554, Speaker A: Yeah. Yeah. So that's. That's the YouTube video of the first call. Okay. A lot of people, but, yeah, yeah. Like Zen Tetsu said, the.
00:35:33.554 - 00:36:31.904, Speaker A: The basic idea of the call is for, like, a core developers to discuss about specific topics that they are working on and to collaborate with other core developers in the ecosystem, like Jump Fire dancer team, like Cheeto, like, other people who are actively working on the code. So it's a little different than this call, which is more like community driven and kind of like, soliciting feedback from everyone. This is a little bit more tightly focused, but, yeah, good feedback. I think I can take that back to Jacob and figure out, like, ways to maybe to advertise it more. Anything else people want to bring up, discuss. All right, well, thanks, everyone. In two weeks, we'll have the earlier call, so it'll be at 11:00 a.m.
00:36:31.904 - 00:36:39.944, Speaker A: Pacific for me, but, you know, localized wherever you are, 12 hours before this time, two weeks from now. All right, thank you, everybody.
